,question,answer
0,Is Galactosialidosis inherited ?,"How is galactosialidosis inherited? Galactosialidosis is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1,"Is 17 alpha-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase deficiency inherited ?","This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
2,What are the symptoms of Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Myositis - Proximal muscle weakness - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
3,What are the symptoms of 8p23.1 duplication syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of 8p23.1 duplication syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 8p23.1 duplication syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Cognitive impairment 50% Highly arched eyebrow 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Abnormality of the nose 7.5% Abnormality of the pulmonary valve 7.5% Abnormality of the upper urinary tract 7.5% Deeply set eye 7.5% Exostoses 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hypertelorism 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Primary adrenal insufficiency 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Thick lower lip vermilion 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
4,What are the treatments for Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?,"Controlling the Infection The main goal of treatment is to control the infection. The number and types of treatment will vary, depending on how far the disease has advanced. Any type of treatment requires the patient to keep up good daily care at home. The doctor may also suggest changing certain behaviors, such as quitting smoking, as a way to improve treatment outcome. Treatments may include deep cleaning, medications, surgery, and bone and tissue grafts. Deep Cleaning (Scaling and Planing) In deep cleaning, the dentist, periodontist, or dental hygienist removes the plaque through a method called scaling and root planing. Scaling means scraping off the tartar from above and below the gum line. Root planing gets rid of rough spots on the tooth root where the germs gather, and helps remove bacteria that contribute to the disease. In some cases a laser may be used to remove plaque and tartar. This procedure can result in less bleeding, swelling, and discomfort compared to traditional deep cleaning methods. Medications Medications may be used with treatment that includes scaling and root planing, but they cannot always take the place of surgery. Depending on how far the disease has progressed, the dentist or periodontist may still suggest surgical treatment. Long-term studies are needed to find out if using medications reduces the need for surgery and whether they are effective over a long period of time. Flap Surgery Surgery might be necessary if inflammation and deep pockets remain following treatment with deep cleaning and medications. A dentist or periodontist may perform flap surgery to remove tartar deposits in deep pockets or to reduce the periodontal pocket and make it easier for the patient, dentist, and hygienist to keep the area clean. This common surgery involves lifting back the gums and removing the tartar. The gums are then sutured back in place so that the tissue fits snugly around the tooth again. After surgery, the gums will shrink to fit more tightly around the tooth. This sometimes results in the teeth appearing longer. Bone and Tissue Grafts In addition to flap surgery, your periodontist or dentist may suggest procedures to help regenerate any bone or gum tissue lost to periodontitis. - Bone grafting,  in which natural or synthetic bone is placed in the area of bone loss, can help promote bone growth. A technique that can be used with bone grafting is called guided tissue regeneration. In this procedure, a small piece of mesh-like material is inserted between the bone and gum tissue. This keeps the gum tissue from growing into the area where the bone should be, allowing the bone and connective tissue to regrow. Bone grafting,  in which natural or synthetic bone is placed in the area of bone loss, can help promote bone growth. A technique that can be used with bone grafting is called guided tissue regeneration. In this procedure, a small piece of mesh-like material is inserted between the bone and gum tissue. This keeps the gum tissue from growing into the area where the bone should be, allowing the bone and connective tissue to regrow. - Growth factors  proteins that can help your body naturally regrow bone  may also be used. In cases where gum tissue has been lost, your dentist or periodontist may suggest a soft tissue graft, in which synthetic material or tissue taken from another area of your mouth is used to cover exposed tooth roots. Growth factors  proteins that can help your body naturally regrow bone  may also be used. In cases where gum tissue has been lost, your dentist or periodontist may suggest a soft tissue graft, in which synthetic material or tissue taken from another area of your mouth is used to cover exposed tooth roots. Since each case is different, it is not possible to predict with certainty which grafts will be successful over the long-term. Treatment results depend on many things, including how far the disease has progressed, how well the patient keeps up with oral care at home, and certain risk factors, such as smoking, which may lower the chances of success. Ask your periodontist what the level of success might be in your particular case. Treatment Results Treatment results depend on many things, including how far the disease has progressed, how well the patient keeps up with home care, and certain risk factors, such as smoking, which may lower the chances of success. Ask your periodontist what the likelihood of success might be in your particular case. Consider Getting a Second Opinion When considering any extensive dental or medical treatment options, you should think about getting a second opinion. To find a dentist or periodontist for a second opinion, call your local dental society. They can provide you with names of practitioners in your area. Also, dental schools may sometimes be able to offer a second opinion. Call the dental school in your area to find out whether it offers this service."
5,What are the symptoms of Coronary Microvascular Disease ?,"The signs and symptoms of coronary microvascular disease (MVD) often differ from the signs and symptoms of traditional coronary heart disease (CHD).
                
Many women with coronary MVD have angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh). Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood.
                
Angina may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. You also may feel it in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion.
                
Angina also is a common symptom of CHD. However, the angina that occurs in coronary MVD may differ from the typical angina that occurs in CHD. In coronary MVD, the chest pain usually lasts longer than 10 minutes, and it can last longer than 30 minutes. Typical angina is more common in women older than 65.
                
Other signs and symptoms of coronary MVD are shortness of breath, sleep problems, fatigue (tiredness), and lack of energy.
                
Coronary MVD symptoms often are first noticed during routine daily activities (such as shopping, cooking, cleaning, and going to work) and times of mental stress. It's less likely that women will notice these symptoms during physical activity (such as jogging or walking fast).
                
This differs from CHD, in which symptoms often first appear while a person is being physically activesuch as while jogging, walking on a treadmill, or going up stairs."
6,What are the treatments for Gardner-Diamond syndrome ?,"How might Gardner-Diamond syndrome be treated? There is no specific treatment for Gardner-Diamond syndrome (GDS). It has been suggested that psychiatric treatment (including psychotherapy) is the only reasonable therapeutic option. In some people, psychiatric medications for mental illness have helped to improve the symptoms. For example, in a person with GDS and an underlying personality disorder, medications used to treat the personality disorder may help with the symptoms of GDS. Due to the presumed psychological nature of the disease, placebo effect has been used successfully to ease the severity of symptoms. It has been proposed that certain medications used to alter the tonus of the capillaries (how they contract), the permeability of the vessels, and/or the flowing properties of the blood may be useful for some people. Symptomatic therapy may be helpful for severe, general symptoms. Several approaches including antihistamines, corticosteroids, antidepressants, hormones, and vitamins have had variable success."
7,Who is at risk for Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors? ?,"High Blood Cholesterol and Triglyceride Levels
                
Cholesterol
                
High blood cholesterol is a condition in which your blood has too much cholesterola waxy, fat-like substance. The higher your blood cholesterol level, the greater your risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and heart attack.
                
Cholesterol travels through the bloodstream in small packages called lipoproteins. Two major kinds of lipoproteins carry cholesterol throughout your body:
                
Low-density lipoproteins (LDL). LDL cholesterol sometimes is called ""bad"" cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol to tissues, including your heart arteries. A high LDL cholesterol level raises your risk of CHD.
                
High-density lipoproteins (HDL). HDL cholesterol sometimes is called ""good"" cholesterol. This is because it helps remove cholesterol from your arteries. A low HDL cholesterol level raises your risk of CHD.
                
Many factors affect your cholesterol levels. For example, after menopause, women's LDL cholesterol levels tend to rise, and their HDL cholesterol levels tend to fall. Other factorssuch as age, gender, diet, and physical activityalso affect your cholesterol levels.
                
Healthy levels of both LDL and HDL cholesterol will prevent plaque from building up in your arteries. Routine blood tests can show whether your blood cholesterol levels are healthy. Talk with your doctor about having your cholesterol tested and what the results mean.
                
Children also can have unhealthy cholesterol levels, especially if they're overweight or their parents have high blood cholesterol. Talk with your child's doctor about testing your child' cholesterol levels.
                
To learn more about high blood cholesterol and how to manage the condition, go to the Health Topics High Blood Cholesterol article.
                
Triglycerides
                
Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood. Some studies suggest that a high level of triglycerides in the blood may raise the risk of CHD, especially in women.
                
High Blood Pressure
                
""Blood pressure"" is the force of blood pushing against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage your heart and lead to plaque buildup.All levels above 120/80 mmHg raise your risk of CHD. This risk grows as blood pressure levels rise. Only one of the two blood pressure numbers has to be above normal to put you at greater risk of CHD and heart attack.
                

                
Most adults should have their blood pressure checked at least once a year. If you have high blood pressure, you'll likely need to be checked more often. Talk with your doctor about how often you should have your blood pressure checked.
                
Children also can develop high blood pressure, especially if they're overweight. Your child's doctor should check your child's blood pressure at each routine checkup.
                
Both children and adults are more likely to develop high blood pressure if they're overweight or have diabetes.
                
For more information about high blood pressure and how to manage the condition, go to the Health Topics High Blood Pressure article.
                
Diabetes and Prediabetes
                
Diabetes is a disease in which the body's blood sugar level is too high. The two types of diabetes are type 1 and type 2.
                
In type 1 diabetes, the body's blood sugar level is high because the body doesn't make enough insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells, where it's used for energy. In type 2 diabetes, the body's blood sugar level is high mainly because the body doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Over time, a high blood sugar level can lead to increased plaque buildup in your arteries. Having diabetes doubles your risk of CHD.
                
Prediabetes is a condition in which your blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not as high as it is in diabetes. If you have prediabetes and don't take steps to manage it, you'll likely develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years. You're also at higher risk of CHD.
                
Being overweight or obese raises your risk of type 2 diabetes. With modest weight loss and moderate physical activity, people who have prediabetes may be able to delay or prevent type 2 diabetes. They also may be able to lower their risk of CHD and heart attack. Weight loss and physical activity also can help control diabetes.
                
Even children can develop type 2 diabetes. Most children who have type 2 diabetes are overweight.
                
Type 2 diabetes develops over time and sometimes has no symptoms. Go to your doctor or local clinic to have your blood sugar levels tested regularly to check for diabetes and prediabetes.
                
For more information about diabetes and heart disease, go to the Health Topics Diabetic Heart Disease article. For more information about diabetes and prediabetes, go to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases' (NIDDK's) Introduction to Diabetes.
                
Overweight and Obesity
                
The terms ""overweight"" and ""obesity"" refer to body weight that's greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height. More than two-thirds of American adults are overweight, and almost one-third of these adults are obese.
                
The most useful measure of overweight and obesity is body mass index (BMI).You can use the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's (NHLBI's) online BMI calculator to figure out your BMI, or your doctor can help you.
                
Overweight is defined differently for children and teens than it is for adults. Children are still growing, and boys and girls mature at different rates. Thus, BMIs for children and teens compare their heights and weights against growth charts that take age and gender into account. This is called BMI-for-age percentile.
                
Being overweight or obese can raise your risk of CHD and heart attack. This is mainly because overweight and obesity are linked to other CHD risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Overweight and Obesity article.
                
Smoking
                
Smoking tobacco or long-term exposure to secondhand smoke raises your risk of CHD and heart attack.
                
Smoking triggers a buildup of plaque in your arteries. Smoking also increases the risk of blood clots forming in your arteries. Blood clots can block plaque-narrowed arteries and cause a heart attack.Some research shows that smoking raises your risk of CHD in part by lowering HDL cholesterol levels.
                
The more you smoke, the greater your risk of heart attack. The benefits of quitting smoking occur no matter how long or how much you've smoked. Heart disease risk associated with smoking begins to decrease soon after you quit, and for many people it continues to decrease over time.
                
Most people who smoke start when they're teens. Parents can help prevent their children from smoking by not smoking themselves. Talk with your child about the health dangers of smoking and ways to overcome peer pressure to smoke.
                
For more information, including tips on how to quit smoking, go to the Health Topics Smoking and Your Heart article and the NHLBI's ""Your Guide to a Healthy Heart.""
                
For more information about children and smoking, go to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS') Kids and Smoking Web page and the CDC's Smoking and Tobacco Use Web page.
                
Lack of Physical Activity
                
Inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop CHD as those who are active. A lack of physical activity can worsen other CHD risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, diabetes and prediabetes, and overweight and obesity.
                
It's important for children and adults to make physical activity part of their daily routines. One reason many Americans aren't active enough is because of hours spent in front of TVs and computers doing work, schoolwork, and leisure activities.
                
Some experts advise that children and teens should reduce screen time because it limits time for physical activity. They recommend that children aged 2 and older should spend no more than 2 hours a day watching TV or using a computer (except for school work).
                
Being physically active is one of the most important things you can do to keep your heart healthy. The good news is that even modest amounts of physical activity are good for your health. The more active you are, the more you will benefit.
                
For more information, go to HHS' ""2008 Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans,"" the Health Topics Physical Activity and Your Heart article, and the NHLBI's ""Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart.""
                
Unhealthy Diet
                
An unhealthy diet can raise your risk of CHD. For example, foods that are high in saturated and trans fats and cholesterol raise LDL cholesterol. Thus, you should try to limit these foods.
                
It's also important to limit foods that are high in sodium (salt) and added sugars. A high-salt diet can raise your risk of high blood pressure.
                
Added sugars will give you extra calories without nutrients like vitamins and minerals. This can cause you to gain weight, which raises your risk of CHD. Added sugars are found in many desserts, canned fruits packed in syrup, fruit drinks, and nondiet sodas.
                
Stress
                
Stress and anxiety may play a role in causing CHD. Stress and anxiety also can trigger your arteries to tighten. This can raise your blood pressure and your risk of heart attack.
                
The most commonly reported trigger for a heart attack is an emotionally upsetting event, especially one involving anger. Stress also may indirectly raise your risk of CHD if it makes you more likely to smoke or overeat foods high in fat and sugar.
                
Age
                
In men, the risk for coronary heart disease (CHD) increases starting around age 45. In women, the risk for CHD increases starting around age 55. Most people have some plaque buildup in their heart arteries by the time theyre in their 70s. However, only about 25 percent of those people have chest pain, heart attacks, or other signs of CHD.
                
Gender
                
Some risk factors may affect CHD risk differently in women than in men. For example, estrogen provides women some protection against CHD, whereas diabetes raises the risk of CHD more in women than in men.
                
Also, some risk factors for heart disease only affect women, such as preeclampsia, a condition that can develop during pregnancy. Preeclampsia is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, heart failure, and high blood pressure. (Likewise, having heart disease risk factors, such as diabetes or obesity, increases a womans risk of preeclampsia.)
                
Family History
                
A family history of early CHD is a risk factor for developing CHD, specifically if a father or brother is diagnosed before age 55, or a mother or sister is diagnosed before age 65."
8,What is (are) Meningioma ?,"Meningiomas originate in the meninges, the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord. Most meningiomas are benign, though a minority of meningiomas can be classified as atypical or malignant. Though rare, malignant meningiomas can be highly aggressive. However, even benign meningiomas can cause problems if their growth affects the neighboring areas of the brain. Though most meningiomas grow slowly, there is no way to predict the rate of growth for a particular meningioma or to know how long a specific meningioma was growing before it was diagnosed. Signs and symptoms can vary but may include seizures, headaches, weakness in the arms and legs, and vision loss. Sometimes memory loss, carelessness, and unsteadiness are the only symptoms."
9,What is (are) Schwartz-Jampel syndrome ?,"Schwartz-Jampel syndrome is a rare condition characterized by permanent muscle stiffness (myotonia) and bone abnormalities known as chondrodysplasia. The signs and symptoms of this condition become apparent sometime after birth, usually in early childhood. Either muscle stiffness or chondrodysplasia can appear first. The muscle and bone abnormalities worsen in childhood, although most affected individuals have a normal lifespan. The specific features of Schwartz-Jampel syndrome vary widely.  Myotonia involves continuous tensing (contraction) of muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles) throughout the body. This sustained muscle contraction causes stiffness that interferes with eating, sitting, walking, and other movements. Sustained contraction of muscles in the face leads to a fixed, ""mask-like"" facial expression with narrow eye openings (blepharophimosis) and pursed lips. This facial appearance is very specific to Schwartz-Jampel syndrome. Affected individuals may also be nearsighted and experience abnormal blinking or spasms of the eyelids (blepharospasm).  Chondrodysplasia affects the development of the skeleton, particularly the long bones in the arms and legs and the bones of the hips. These bones are shortened and unusually wide at the ends, so affected individuals have short stature. The long bones may also be abnormally curved (bowed). Other bone abnormalities associated with Schwartz-Jampel syndrome include a protruding chest (pectus carinatum), abnormal curvature of the spine, flattened bones of the spine (platyspondyly), and joint abnormalities called contractures that further restrict movement.  Researchers originally described two types of Schwartz-Jampel syndrome. Type 1 has the signs and symptoms described above, while type 2 has more severe bone abnormalities and other health problems and is usually life-threatening in early infancy. Researchers have since discovered that the condition they thought was Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 2 is actually part of another disorder, Stve-Wiedemann syndrome, which is caused by mutations in a different gene. They have recommended that the designation Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 2 no longer be used."
10,What is (are) idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ?,"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a chronic, progressive lung disease. This condition causes scar tissue (fibrosis) to build up in the lungs, which makes the lungs unable to transport oxygen into the bloodstream effectively. The disease usually affects people between the ages of 50 and 70.  The most common signs and symptoms of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis are shortness of breath and a persistent dry, hacking cough. Many affected individuals also experience a loss of appetite and gradual weight loss. Some people with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis develop widened and rounded tips of the fingers and toes (clubbing) resulting from a shortage of oxygen. These features are relatively nonspecific; not everyone with these health problems has idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Other respiratory diseases, some of which are less serious, can cause similar signs and symptoms.  In people with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, scarring of the lungs increases over time until the lungs can no longer provide enough oxygen to the body's organs and tissues. Some people with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis develop other serious lung conditions, including lung cancer, blood clots in the lungs (pulmonary emboli), pneumonia, or high blood pressure in the blood vessels that supply the lungs (pulmonary hypertension). Most affected individuals survive 3 to 5 years after their diagnosis. However, the course of the disease is highly variable; some affected people become seriously ill within a few months, while others may live with the disease for a decade or longer.  In most cases, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis occurs in only one person in a family. These cases are described as sporadic. However, a small percentage of people with this disease have at least one other affected family member. When idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis occurs in multiple members of the same family, it is known as familial pulmonary fibrosis."
11,What are the symptoms of Adult Central Nervous System Tumors ?,"The signs and symptoms of adult brain and spinal cord tumors are not the same in every person. Signs and symptoms depend on the following:         - Where the tumor forms in the brain or spinal cord.    - What the affected part of the brain controls.    - The size of the tumor.        Signs and symptoms may be caused by CNS tumors or by other conditions, including cancer that has spread to the brain. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:      Brain Tumor Symptoms       - Morning headache or headache that goes away after vomiting.    -  Seizures.    - Vision, hearing, and speech problems.    - Loss of appetite.    - Frequent nausea and vomiting.     - Changes in personality, mood, ability to focus, or behavior.    - Loss of balance and trouble walking.    - Weakness.    - Unusual sleepiness or change in activity level.            Spinal Cord Tumor Symptoms       - Back pain or pain that spreads from the back towards the arms or legs.    - A change in bowel habits or trouble urinating.    - Weakness or numbness in the arms or legs.    - Trouble walking."
12,What are the treatments for fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Progressive myositis ossificans   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
13,What is (are) Menetrier disease ?,"Mntrier disease is a condition characterized by inflammation and ulcers of the mucosa (inner lining) of the stomach and by overgrowth of the cells that make up the mucosa. The condition is associated with the following signs: protein loss from the stomach, excessive mucus production, and hypochlorhydria (low levels of stomach acid) or achlorhydia (absent levels of stomach acid).   Symptoms usually include vomiting, diarrhea, and weight loss. The disease may increase an individual's risk of developing stomach cancer."
14,"What are the treatments for Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal recessive type ?","How might craniometaphyseal dysplasia be treated? Treatment consists primarily of surgery to reduce compression of cranial nerves and the brain stem/spinal cord at the level of the foramen magnum. Severely overgrown facial bones can be contoured; however, surgical procedures can be technically difficult and bone regrowth is common. Individuals with craniometaphyseal dysplasia should have regular neurologic evaluations, hearing assessments, and ophthalmologic examinations. The frequency of these evaluations and assessments should be determined by the individual's history and severity of skeletal changes."
15,What is (are) Hearing Loss ?,"Presbycusis is common in older adults. Presbycusis comes on gradually as a person ages and mostly affects people over 50. Doctors do not know why presbycusis happens, but it seems to run in families. Presbycusis may make it hard for a person to tolerate loud sounds or to hear what others are saying. This type of hearing loss involves damage to the inner ear and is permanent. Tinnitus, also common in older people, is the ringing, roaring, clicking, hissing, or buzzing sound in the ears frequently caused by presbycusis, exposure to loud noise or certain medications. Tinnitus can accompany any type of hearing loss. It also can be a sign of other important health problems, too, such as allergies and problems in the heart and blood vessels. Tinnitus may come and go, or stop altogether."
16,What are the treatments for Lujan syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Lujan syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: MED12-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: X-linked mental retardation with marfanoid habitus syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
17,What is (are) Hemochromatosis ?,"Hemochromatosis is a condition in which too much iron builds up in the body (iron overload). Accumulation of iron in the organs is toxic and can result in organ failure. While many organs can be affected, it may especially affect the liver, heart, and pancreas. Symptoms of hemochromatosis tend to develop gradually and often don't appear until middle age or later. The condition may not be diagnosed until iron accumulation is excessive. Early symptoms may be vague, such as fatigue or weakness. Other symptoms or features may include joint pain, abdominal pain, loss of sex drive, arthritis, liver disease, diabetes, heart problems, and skin discoloration. Hemochromatosis may be hereditary or acquired (secondary) due to another condition such as anemia, chronic liver disease, or an infection. There is also a neonatal form. Hereditary hemochromatosis is classified by type based on age of onset, genetic cause and mode of inheritance: Hemochromotosis type 1 Hemochromatosis type 2 Hemochromatosis type 3 Hemochromatosis type 4 Treatment usually involves removing blood (phlebotomy), which prevents additional organ damage but does not reverse existing damage."
18,What are the treatments for Pericarditis ?,"Most cases of pericarditis are mild; they clear up on their own or with rest and simple treatment. Other times, more intense treatment is needed to prevent complications. Treatment may include medicines and, less often, procedures or surgery.
                
The goals of treatment include:
                
Reducing pain and inflammation
                
Treating the underlying cause, if it's known
                
Checking for complications
                
Specific Types of Treatment
                
As a first step in your treatment, your doctor may advise you to rest until you feel better and have no fever. He or she may tell you to take over-the-counter, anti-inflammatory medicines to reduce pain and inflammation. Examples of these medicines include aspirin and ibuprofen.
                
You may need stronger medicine if your pain is severe. If your pain continues to be severe, your doctor may prescribe a medicine called colchicine and, possibly, prednisone (a steroid medicine).
                
If an infection is causing your pericarditis, your doctor will prescribe an antibiotic or other medicine to treat the infection.
                
You may need to stay in the hospital during treatment for pericarditis so your doctor can check you for complications.
                
The symptoms of acute pericarditis can last from a few days to 3 weeks. Chronic pericarditis may last several months.
                
Other Types of Treatment
                
You may need treatment for complications of pericarditis. Two serious complications are cardiac tamponade and chronic constrictive pericarditis.
                
Cardiac tamponade is treated with a procedure called pericardiocentesis (per-ih-KAR-de-o-sen-TE-sis). A needle or tube (called a catheter) is inserted into the chest wall to remove excess fluid in the pericardium. This procedure relieves pressure on the heart.
                
The only cure for chronic constrictive pericarditis is surgery to remove the pericardium. This is known as a pericardiectomy (PER-i-kar-de-EK-to-me).
                
The treatments for these complications require hospital stays."
19,What are the treatments for Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?,"Most UTIs are caused by bacteria, which are treated with bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics or antimicrobials. While a urine sample is sent to a laboratory, the health care provider may begin treatment with an antibiotic that treats the bacteria most likely to be causing the infection. Once culture results are known, the health care provider may decide to switch the childs antibiotic.
                
The choice of medication and length of treatment depend on the childs history and the type of bacteria causing the infection. When a child is sick or unable to drink fluids, the antibiotic may need to be put directly into the bloodstream through a vein in the arm or hand or be given as an injection. Otherwise, the medicationliquid or pillsmay be given by mouth. The medication is given for at least 3 to 5 days and possibly for as long as several weeks. The daily treatment schedule recommended depends on the specific medication prescribed: The schedule may call for a single dose each day or up to four doses each day. In some cases, a child will need to take the medication until further tests are finished.
                
After a few doses of the antibiotic, a child may appear much better, but often several days may pass before all symptoms are gone. In any case, the medication should be taken for as long as the health care provider recommends. Medications should not be stopped because the symptoms have gone away. Infections may return, and bacteria can resist future treatment if the medication is stopped too soon.
                
If needed, the health care provider may recommend an appropriate over-the-counter medication to relieve the pain of a UTI. A heating pad on the back or abdomen may also help."
20,What are the genetic changes related to hereditary myopathy with early respiratory failure ?,"HMERF can be caused by a mutation in the TTN gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called titin. Titin plays an important role in muscles the body uses for movement (skeletal muscles) and in heart (cardiac) muscle.  Within muscle cells, titin is an essential component of structures called sarcomeres. Sarcomeres are the basic units of muscle contraction; they are made of proteins that generate the mechanical force needed for muscles to contract. Titin has several functions within sarcomeres. One of its most important jobs is to provide structure, flexibility, and stability to these cell structures. Titin also plays a role in chemical signaling and in assembling new sarcomeres.  The TTN gene mutation responsible for HMERF leads to the production of an altered version of the titin protein. Studies suggest that this change may disrupt titin's interactions with other proteins within sarcomeres and interfere with the protein's role in chemical signaling. Consequently, muscle fibers become damaged and weaken over time. It is unclear why these effects are usually limited to proximal muscles and muscles involved in breathing.  Some people with the characteristic features of HMERF do not have identified mutations in the TTN gene. In these cases, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown."
21,What is (are) Laron syndrome ?,Laron syndrome is a condition that occurs when the body is unable to utilize growth hormone. It is primarily characterized by short stature. Other signs and symptoms vary but may include reduced muscle strength and endurance; hypoglycemia in infancy; delayed puberty; short limbs (arms and legs); and obesity. It is often caused by changes (mutations) in the GHR gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is focused on improving growth and generally includes injections of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1).
22,What are the symptoms of Partial agenesis of corpus callosum ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Partial agenesis of corpus callosum? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Partial agenesis of corpus callosum. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Seizures 90% Hypertonia 50% Microcephaly 50% Muscle weakness 50% Aganglionic megacolon 7.5% Abnormal facial shape - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Hydrocephalus - Inferior vermis hypoplasia - Intellectual disability - Partial agenesis of the corpus callosum - Spasticity - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
23,What are the symptoms of Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia X-linked ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia X-linked? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia X-linked. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the nail - Anteverted nares - Coarse facial features - Depressed nasal bridge - Enlarged joints - Hip contracture - Hyperextensibility of the finger joints - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability, mild - Knee flexion contracture - Kyphosis - Neurological speech impairment - Nystagmus - Pectus carinatum - Platyspondyly - Respiratory failure - Sclerosis of skull base - Severe short stature - Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia - Strabismus - Tapered finger - Thoracolumbar scoliosis - Wide nasal bridge - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
24,Is spastic paraplegia type 15 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
25,What is (are) Cogan-Reese syndrome ?,"Cogan-Reese syndrome is one type of Iridocorneal Endothelial (ICE) syndrome. The ICE syndromes predominantly affect Caucasian, young to middle-aged women, and involve one eye. While there have been some cases of Cogan-Reese syndrome reported in children, the disease is typically observed in females in the mid-adult years. [1] In one study of 71 patients with ICE syndrome, the mean age at diagnosis was 51-years. Known glaucoma was present in 11 (15%) of cases. [2] While it is not yet known how to keep Cogan-Reese syndrome from progressing, the glaucoma associated with the disease can be treated with medication. Additionally, corneal transplant can treat any corneal swelling. The National Eye Institute provides information on screening for glaucoma HERE."
26,What are the treatments for cystinosis ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of cystinosis:  - Cystinosis Research Foundation: Treatment  - Cystinosis Research Network: Symptoms and Treatment  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Cystinosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cystinosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cystinosis, ocular nonnephropathic  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile nephropathic cystinosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Fanconi Syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Photophobia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
27,What is (are) Atrial Fibrillation ?,"An arrhythmia is a problem with the speed or rhythm of the heartbeat. Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common type of arrhythmia. The cause is a disorder in the heart's electrical system.      Often, people who have AF may not even feel symptoms. But you may feel        - Palpitations -- an abnormal rapid heartbeat    - Shortness of breath    - Weakness or difficulty exercising    - Chest pain    - Dizziness or fainting    - Fatigue    - Confusion        AF can lead to an increased risk of stroke. In many patients, it can also cause chest pain, heart attack, or heart failure.      Doctors diagnose AF using family and medical history, a physical exam, and a test called an electrocardiogram (EKG), which looks at the electrical waves your heart makes. Treatments include medicines and procedures to restore normal rhythm.     NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
28,What are the treatments for Anxiety Disorders ?,"Exposure-based treatment has been used for many years to treat specific phobias. The person gradually encounters the object or situation that is feared, perhaps at first only through pictures or tapes, then later face-to-face. Sometimes the therapist will accompany the person to a feared situation to provide support and guidance. Exposure exercises are undertaken once the patient decides he is ready for it and with his cooperation. To be effective, therapy must be directed at the persons specific anxieties and must be tailored to his or her needs. A typical side effect is temporary discomfort involved with thinking about confronting feared situations."
29,What are the symptoms of Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Non 24 hour sleep wake disorder. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Insomnia 90% Visual impairment 90% Anorexia 50% Incoordination 50% Memory impairment 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
30,What is (are) Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors ?,"Key Points
                    - A childhood brain or spinal cord tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain or spinal cord.     - The brain controls many important body functions.    - The spinal cord connects the brain with nerves in most parts of the body.    - Brain and spinal cord tumors are a common type of childhood cancer.    - The cause of most childhood brain and spinal cord tumors is unknown.    - The signs and symptoms of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors are not the same in every child.    - Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to detect (find) childhood brain and spinal cord tumors.    - Most childhood brain tumors are diagnosed and removed in surgery.    - Some childhood brain and spinal cord tumors are diagnosed by imaging tests.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    A childhood brain or spinal cord tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain or spinal cord.
                    There are many types of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors. The tumors are formed by the abnormal growth of cells and may begin in different areas of the brain or spinal cord.    The tumors may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). Benign brain tumors grow and press on nearby areas of the brain. They rarely spread into other tissues. Malignant brain tumors are likely to grow quickly and spread into other brain tissue. When a tumor grows into or presses on an area of the brain, it may stop that part of the brain from working the way it should. Both benign and malignant brain tumors can cause signs or symptoms and need treatment.   Together, the brain and spinal cord make up the central nervous system (CNS).
                
                
                    The brain controls many important body functions.
                    The brain has three major parts:          - The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain. It is at the top of the head. The cerebrum controls thinking, learning, problem solving, emotions, speech, reading, writing, and voluntary movement.     - The cerebellum is in the lower back of the brain (near the middle of the back of the head). It controls movement, balance, and posture.    - The brain stem connects the brain to the spinal cord. It is in the lowest part of the brain (just above the back of the neck). The brain stem controls breathing, heart rate, and the nerves and muscles used in seeing, hearing, walking, talking, and eating.
                
                
                    The spinal cord connects the brain with nerves in most parts of the body.
                    The spinal cord is a column of nerve tissue that runs from the brain stem down the center of the back. It is covered by three thin layers of tissue called membranes. These membranes are surrounded by the vertebrae (back bones). Spinal cord nerves carry messages between the brain and the rest of the body, such as a message from the brain to cause muscles to move or a message from the skin to the brain to feel touch.
                
                
                    Brain and spinal cord tumors are a common type of childhood cancer.
                    Although cancer is rare in children, brain and spinal cord tumors are the third most common type of childhood cancer, after leukemia and lymphoma. Brain tumors can occur in both children and adults. Treatment for children is usually different than treatment for adults. (See the PDQ summary on Adult Central Nervous System Tumors Treatment for more information about the treatment of adults.)    This summary describes the treatment of primary brain and spinal cord tumors (tumors that begin in the brain and spinal cord). Treatment of metastatic brain and spinal cord tumors is not covered in this summary. Metastatic tumors are formed by cancer cells that begin in other parts of the body and spread to the brain or spinal cord."
31,What are the symptoms of Hashimoto's encephalitis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hashimoto's encephalitis? The symptoms of Hashimoto's encephalitis can vary among affected people. They most often include sudden or subacute onset of confusion with alteration of consciousness. Some affected people have multiple, recurrent episodes of neurological deficits with cognitive dysfunction. Others experience a more progressive course characterized by slowly progressive cognitive impairment with dementia, confusion, hallucinations, or sleepiness. In some cases, rapid deterioration to coma can occur. In addition to confusion and mental status changes, symptoms may include seizures and myoclonus (muscle jerking) or tremor. Psychosis, including visual hallucinations and paranoid delusions, has also been reported."
32,What is (are) Alzheimer's Disease ?,"Alzheimers disease is a brain disease that slowly destroys memory and thinking skills and, eventually, the ability to carry out the simplest tasks. It begins slowly and gets worse over time. Currently, it has no cure. Alzheimers disease is the most common cause of dementia in older people.  Get more details about Alzheimer's disease."
33,What causes Hanhart syndrome ?,"What causes Hanhart syndrome syndrome? The exact underlying cause of Hanhart syndrome is currently unknown. However, researchers suspect that there may be genetic and/or environmental factors that contribute to the development of the condition. To date, no specific disease-causing genes have been identified. Possible environmental factors including: Exposure of the pregnant mother to radiation, teratogenic medications, or hypothermia Trauma or disrupted blood flow to the baby in the womb Chorionic villus sampling procedures (when performed too early in the pregnancy)"
34,What to do for Urinary Incontinence in Men ?,"- Urinary incontinence (UI) is the loss of bladder control, resulting in the accidental leakage of urine from the body.  - The urinary tract is the bodys drainage system for removing urine, which is composed of wastes and extra fluid.  - Every day, the kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine.  - To urinate, the brain signals the muscular bladder wall to tighten, squeezing urine out of the bladder. At the same time, the brain signals the sphincters to relax. As the sphincters relax, urine exits the bladder through the urethra.  - UI results when the brain does not properly signal the bladder, the sphincters do not squeeze strongly enough, or both.  - Urgency incontinence happens when a man urinates involuntarily after he has a strong desire, or urgency, to urinate.  - Stress incontinence results from movements that put pressure on the bladder and cause urine leakage, such as coughing, sneezing, laughing, or physical activity.  - Functional incontinence occurs when physical disability, external obstacles, or problems in thinking or communicating keep a person from reaching a place to urinate in time.  - When the bladder doesnt empty properly, urine spills over, causing overflow incontinence. Weak bladder muscles or a blocked urethra can cause this type of incontinence.  - Transient incontinence is UI that lasts a short time. Transient incontinence is usually a side effect of certain medications, drugs, or temporary conditions.  - UI occurs in 11 to 34 percent of older men.  - Men should tell a health care professional, such as a family practice physician, a nurse, an internist, or a urologist, they have UI, even if they feel embarrassed.  - Treatment depends on the type of UI. Some types of treatment include behavioral and lifestyle changes, bladder training, pelvic floor exercises, and urgency suppression.  - People who smoke should stop. Quitting smoking at any age promotes bladder health and overall health."
35,What are the symptoms of Polycystic liver disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Polycystic liver disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Polycystic liver disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hepatomegaly 90% Polycystic kidney dysplasia 50% Abdominal pain 7.5% Abnormality of the pancreas 7.5% Aneurysm 7.5% Elevated alkaline phosphatase 7.5% Feeding difficulties in infancy 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Abdominal distention - Abnormality of the cardiovascular system - Abnormality of the nervous system - Ascites - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Back pain - Increased total bilirubin - Polycystic liver disease - Renal cyst - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
36,What is (are) Peritoneal Disorders ?,"Your peritoneum is the tissue that lines your abdominal wall and covers most of the organs in your abdomen. A liquid, peritoneal fluid, lubricates the surface of this tissue.    Disorders of the peritoneum are not common. They include       - Peritonitis - an inflammation of the peritoneum    - Cancer    - Complications from peritoneal dialysis       Your doctor may use imaging tests or lab tests to analyze the peritoneal fluid to diagnose the problem. Treatment of peritoneal disorders depends on the cause."
37,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Inclusion Body Myositis ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research relating to IBM in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently funded research is exploring patterns of gene expression among the inflammatory myopathies, the role of viral infection as a precursor to the disorders, and the safety and efficacy of various treatment regimens."
38,What causes Dry Mouth ?,"People get dry mouth when the glands in the mouth that make saliva are not working properly. Because of this, there might not be enough saliva to keep your mouth healthy. There are several reasons why these glands, called salivary glands, might not work right. Medicines and Dry Mouth More than 400 medicines, including some over-the-counter medications, can cause the salivary glands to make less saliva, or to change the composition of the saliva so that it can't perform the functions it should. As an example, medicines for urinary incontinence, allergies, high blood pressure, and depression often cause dry mouth. Diseases That Can Cause Dry Mouth Some diseases can affect the salivary glands. Dry mouth can occur in patients with diabetes. Dry mouth is also the hallmark symptom of the fairly common autoimmune disease Sjgren's syndrome. Sjgren's syndrome can occur either by itself or with another autoimmune disease like rheumatoid arthritis or lupus. Salivary and tear glands are the major targets of the syndrome and the result is a decrease in production of saliva and tears. The disorder can occur at any age, but the average person with the disorder at the Sjgren's Syndrome Clinic of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) is in his or her late 50s. Women with the disorder outnumber men 9 to 1. Cancer Treatments and Dry Mouth Certain cancer treatments can affect the salivary glands. Head and neck radiation therapy can cause the glands to produce little or no saliva. Chemotherapy may cause the salivary glands to produce thicker saliva, which makes the mouth feel dry and sticky. Injury to the head or neck can damage the nerves that tell salivary glands to make saliva."
39,How many people are affected by alpha-mannosidosis ?,"Alpha-mannosidosis is estimated to occur in approximately 1 in 500,000 people worldwide."
40,What is (are) Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 4 ?,"Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome is an inherited condition that mainly affects the brain, immune system, and skin. It is characterized by early-onset severe brain dysfunction (encephalopathy) that usually results in severe intellectual and physical disability. Additional symptoms may include epilepsy, painful, itchy skin lesion (chilblains), vision problems, and joint stiffness. Symptoms usually progress over several months before the disease course stabilizes. There are six different types of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, which are distinguished by the gene that causes the condition: TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, and ADAR genes. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, although rare autosomal dominant cases have been reported. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive."
41,What is (are) Anesthesia ?,"If you are having surgery, your doctor will give you medicine called an anesthetic. Anesthetics reduce or prevent pain. There are three main types:       - Local - numbs one small area of the body. You stay awake and alert.    - Regional - blocks pain in an area of the body, such an arm or leg. A common type is epidural anesthesia, which is often used during childbirth.    - General - makes you unconscious. You do not feel any pain, and you do not remember the procedure afterwards.       You may also get a mild sedative to relax you. You stay awake but may not remember the procedure afterwards. Sedation can be used with or without anesthesia.    The type of anesthesia or sedation you get depends on many factors. They include the procedure you are having and your current health."
42,What is the outlook for Benign Essential Blepharospasm ?,"With botulinum toxin treatment most individuals with BEB have substantial relief of symptoms. Although some may experience side effects such as drooping eyelids, blurred or double vision, and eye dryness, these side effects are usually only temporary. The condition may worsen or expand to surrounding muscles; remain the same for many years; and, in rare cases, improve spontaneously."
43,What is (are) Gestational Trophoblastic Disease ?,"Key Points
                    - Gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) is a group of rare diseases in which abnormal trophoblast cells grow inside the uterus after conception.    - Hydatidiform mole (HM) is the most common type of GTD.    - Gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) is a type of gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) that is almost always malignant.          - Invasive moles     - Choriocarcinomas     - Placental-site trophoblastic tumors     - Epithelioid trophoblastic tumors        - Age and a previous molar pregnancy affect the risk of GTD.    - Signs of GTD include abnormal vaginal bleeding and a uterus that is larger than normal.     - Tests that examine the uterus are used to detect (find) and diagnose gestational trophoblastic disease.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) is a group of rare diseases in which abnormal trophoblast cells grow inside the uterus after conception.
                    In gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD), a tumor develops inside the uterus from tissue that forms after conception (the joining of sperm and egg). This tissue is made of trophoblast cells and normally surrounds the fertilized egg in the uterus. Trophoblast cells help connect the fertilized egg to the wall of the uterus and form part of the placenta (the organ that passes nutrients from the mother to the fetus).   Sometimes there is a problem with the fertilized egg and trophoblast cells. Instead of a healthy fetus developing, a tumor forms. Until there are signs or symptoms of the tumor, the pregnancy will seem like a normal pregnancy.   Most GTD is benign (not cancer) and does not spread, but some types become malignant (cancer) and spread to nearby tissues or distant parts of the body.   Gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) is a general term that includes different types of disease:         -  Hydatidiform Moles (HM)               - Complete HM.      - Partial HM.             - Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia (GTN)               -  Invasive moles.      -  Choriocarcinomas.      - Placental-site trophoblastic tumors (PSTT; very rare).      - Epithelioid trophoblastic tumors (ETT; even more rare).
                
                
                    Hydatidiform mole (HM) is the most common type of GTD.
                    HMs are slow-growing tumors that look like sacs of fluid. An HM is also called a molar pregnancy. The cause of hydatidiform moles is not known.   HMs may be complete or partial:         - A complete HM forms when sperm fertilizes an egg that does not contain the mothers DNA. The egg has DNA from the father and the cells that were meant to become the placenta are abnormal.    - A partial HM forms when sperm fertilizes a normal egg and there are two sets of DNA from the father in the fertilized egg. Only part of the fetus forms and the cells that were meant to become the placenta are abnormal.        Most hydatidiform moles are benign, but they sometimes become cancer. Having one or more of the following risk factors increases the risk that a hydatidiform mole will become cancer:         - A pregnancy before 20 or after 35 years of age.    - A very high level of beta human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG), a hormone made by the body during pregnancy.    - A large tumor in the uterus.     - An ovarian cyst larger than 6 centimeters.     -  High blood pressure during pregnancy.    - An overactive thyroid gland (extra thyroid hormone is made).    - Severe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy.    - Trophoblastic cells in the blood, which may block small blood vessels.     - Serious blood clotting problems caused by the HM.
                
                
                    Gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) is a type of gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) that is almost always malignant.
                    Gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) includes the following:     Invasive moles    Invasive moles are made up of trophoblast cells that grow into the muscle layer of the uterus. Invasive moles are more likely to grow and spread than a hydatidiform mole. Rarely, a complete or partial HM may become an invasive mole. Sometimes an invasive mole will disappear without treatment.       Choriocarcinomas    A choriocarcinoma is a malignant tumor that forms from trophoblast cells and spreads to the muscle layer of the uterus and nearby blood vessels. It may also spread to other parts of the body, such as the brain, lungs, liver, kidney, spleen, intestines, pelvis, or vagina. A choriocarcinoma is more likely to form in women who have had any of the following:            -  Molar pregnancy, especially with a complete hydatidiform mole.      - Normal pregnancy.     - Tubal pregnancy (the fertilized egg implants in the fallopian tube rather than the uterus).     - Miscarriage.              Placental-site trophoblastic tumors    A placental-site trophoblastic tumor (PSTT) is a rare type of gestational trophoblastic neoplasia that forms where the placenta attaches to the uterus. The tumor forms from trophoblast cells and spreads into the muscle of the uterus and into blood vessels. It may also spread to the lungs, pelvis, or lymph nodes. A PSTT grows very slowly and signs or symptoms may appear months or years after a normal pregnancy.        Epithelioid trophoblastic tumors    An epithelioid trophoblastic tumor (ETT) is a very rare type of gestational trophoblastic neoplasia that may be benign or malignant. When the tumor is malignant, it may spread to the lungs."
44,What is (are) Arrhythmia ?,"Espaol
                
An arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah) is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm.
                
A heartbeat that is too fast is called tachycardia (TAK-ih-KAR-de-ah). A heartbeat that is too slow is called bradycardia (bray-de-KAR-de-ah).
                
Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some can be serious or even life threatening. During an arrhythmia, the heart may not be able to pump enough blood to the body. Lack of blood flow can damage the brain, heart, and other organs.
                
Understanding the Heart's Electrical System
                
To understand arrhythmias, it helps to understand the heart's internal electrical system. The heart's electrical system controls the rate and rhythm of the heartbeat.
                
With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads from the top of the heart to the bottom. As the signal travels, it causes the heart to contract and pump blood.
                
Each electrical signal begins in a group of cells called the sinus node or sinoatrial (SA) node. The SA node is located in the heart's upper right chamber, the right atrium (AY-tree-um). In a healthy adult heart at rest, the SA node fires off an electrical signal to begin a new heartbeat 60 to 100 times a minute.
                
From the SA node, the electrical signal travels through special pathways in the right and left atria. This causes the atria to contract and pump blood into the heart's two lower chambers, the ventricles (VEN-trih-kuls).
                
The electrical signal then moves down to a group of cells called the atrioventricular (AV) node, located between the atria and the ventricles. Here, the signal slows down just a little, allowing the ventricles time to finish filling with blood.
                
The electrical signal then leaves the AV node and travels along a pathway called the bundle of His. This pathway divides into a right bundle branch and a left bundle branch. The signal goes down these branches to the ventricles, causing them to contract and pump blood to the lungs and the rest of the body.
                
The ventricles then relax, and the heartbeat process starts all over again in the SA node. (For more information about the heart's electrical system, including detailed animations, go to the Health Topics How the Heart Works article.)
                
A problem with any part of this process can cause an arrhythmia. For example, in atrial fibrillation (A-tre-al fi-bri-LA-shun), a common type of arrhythmia, electrical signals travel through the atria in a fast and disorganized way. This causes the atria to quiver instead of contract.
                
Outlook
                
There are many types of arrhythmia. Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some are not. The outlook for a person who has an arrhythmia depends on the type and severity of the arrhythmia.
                
Even serious arrhythmias often can be successfully treated. Most people who have arrhythmias are able to live normal, healthy lives."
45,What is (are) Cancer in Children ?,"Cancer begins in the cells, which are the building blocks of your body. Normally, new cells form as you need them, replacing old cells that die. Sometimes, this process goes wrong. New cells form when you don't need them, and old cells don't die when they should. The extra cells can form a tumor. Benign tumors aren't cancer while malignant ones are. Malignant tumor cells can invade nearby tissues or break away and spread to other parts of the body.     Children can get cancer in the same parts of the body as adults, but there are differences. Childhood cancers can occur suddenly, without early symptoms, and have a high rate of cure. The most common children's cancer is leukemia. Other cancers that affect children include brain tumors, lymphoma, and soft tissue sarcoma. Symptoms and treatment depend on the cancer type and how advanced it is. Treatment may include surgery, radiation and/or chemotherapy.     NIH: National Cancer Institute"
46,What are the symptoms of Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency? The initial signs and symptoms of medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency (MCADD) typically occur during infancy or early childhood and can include vomiting, lack of energy (lethargy), and low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). In rare cases, the first episode of problems related to MCADD occurs during adulthood. The signs and symptoms of MCADD can be triggered by periods of fasting, or during illnesses such as viral infections, particularly when eating is reduced. People with MCADD are also at risk of serious complications such as seizures, breathing difficulties, liver problems, brain damage, coma, and sudden, unexpected death. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral edema - Coma - Decreased plasma carnitine - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Hepatic steatosis - Hepatomegaly - Hyperglycinuria - Hypoglycemia - Lethargy - Medium chain dicarboxylic aciduria - Muscular hypotonia - Seizures - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
47,What is (are) Familial hemiplegic migraine type 2 ?,"Familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) is a form of migraine headache that runs in families. Migraines usually cause intense, throbbing pain in one area of the head, often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to light and sound. These recurrent headaches typically begin in childhood or adolescence and may last from a few hours to a few days. People with familial hemiplegic migraine experience an aura that comes before the headache. The most common symptoms associated with an aura are temporary visual changes such as blind spots (scotomas), flashing lights, zig-zagging lines, and double vision. In people with familial hemiplegic migraine, auras are also characterized by temporary numbness or weakness, often affecting one side of the body (hemiparesis). An aura typically develops gradually over a few minutes and lasts about an hour. Researchers have identified three forms of familial hemiplegic migraine known as FHM1, FHM2, and FHM3. Each of the three types is caused by mutations in a different gene."
48,What are the treatments for Pilomatrixoma ?,"How might a pilomatrixoma be treated? Pilomatrixomas are usually surgically removed (excised). In most cases, the tumors do not grow back (recur) after surgery, unless the removal was incomplete."
49,Is glycogen storage disease type 0 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
50,What is (are) Metabolic Disorders ?,"Metabolism is the process your body uses to get or make energy from the food you eat. Food is made up of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Chemicals in your digestive system break the food parts down into sugars and acids, your body's fuel. Your body can use this fuel right away, or it can store the energy in your body tissues, such as your liver, muscles, and body fat.    A metabolic disorder occurs when abnormal chemical reactions in your body disrupt this process. When this happens, you might have too much of some substances or too little of other ones that you need to stay healthy.     You can develop a metabolic disorder when some organs, such as your liver or pancreas, become diseased or do not function normally. Diabetes is an example."
51,How to prevent What I need to know about Kidney Stones ?,"To prevent kidney stones, you need to know what caused your kidney stone. Your doctor may ask you to try to catch the kidney stone as it passes in your urine. The kidney stone can then be sent to a lab to find out what type of stone it is. If you have treatment in the hospital and the doctor removes the stone, it will also be sent to a lab for testing.
                
Your doctor may ask you to collect your urine for 24 hours after the stone has passed or been removed. Your doctor can then measure how much urine you produce in a day and mineral levels in the urine. You are more likely to form stones if you dont make enough urine each day or have a problem with mineral levels.
                
Once you know what type of kidney stone you had, you can make changes in your eating, diet, and nutrition and take medicines to prevent future kidney stones."
52,How to diagnose Pneumonia ?,"Pneumonia can be hard to diagnose because it may seem like a cold or the flu. You may not realize it's more serious until it lasts longer than these other conditions.
                
Your doctor will diagnose pneumonia based on your medical history, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Medical History
                
Your doctor will ask about your signs and symptoms and how and when they began. To find out what type of germ is causing the pneumonia, he or she also may ask about:
                
Any recent traveling you've done
                
Your hobbies
                
Your exposure to animals
                
Your exposure to sick people at home, school, or work
                
Your past and current medical conditions, and whether any have gotten worse recently
                
Any medicines you take
                
Whether you smoke
                
Whether you've had flu or pneumonia vaccinations
                
Physical Exam
                
Your doctor will listen to your lungs with a stethoscope. If you have pneumonia, your lungs may make crackling, bubbling, and rumbling sounds when you inhale. Your doctor also may hear wheezing.
                
Your doctor may find it hard to hear sounds of breathing in some areas of your chest.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
If your doctor thinks you have pneumonia, he or she may recommend one or more of the following tests.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray is a painless test that creates pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels.
                
A chest x ray is the best test for diagnosing pneumonia. However, this test won't tell your doctor what kind of germ is causing the pneumonia.
                
Blood Tests
                
Blood tests involve taking a sample of blood from a vein in your body. A complete blood count (CBC) measures many parts of your blood, including the number of white blood cells in the blood sample. The number of white blood cells can show whether you have a bacterial infection.
                
Your doctor also may recommend a blood culture to find out whether the infection has spread to your bloodstream. This test is used to detect germs in the bloodstream. A blood culture may show which germ caused the infection. If so, your doctor can decide how to treat the infection.
                
Other Tests
                
Your doctor may recommend other tests if you're in the hospital, have serious symptoms, are older, or have other health problems.
                
Sputum test. Your doctor may look at a sample of sputum (spit) collected from you after a deep cough. This may help your doctor find out what germ is causing your pneumonia. Then, he or she can plan treatment.
                
Chest computed tomography (CT) scan. A chest CT scan is a painless test that creates precise pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your lungs. A chest CT scan is a type of x ray, but its pictures show more detail than those of a standard chest xray.
                
Pleural fluid culture. For this test, a fluid sample is taken from the pleural space (a thin space between two layers of tissue that line the lungs and chest cavity). Doctors use a procedure called thoracentesis (THOR-ah-sen-TE-sis) to collect the fluid sample. The fluid is studied for germs that may cause pneumonia.
                
Pulse oximetry. For this test, a small sensor is attached to your finger or ear. The sensor uses light to estimate how much oxygen is in your blood. Pneumonia can keep your lungs from moving enough oxygen into your bloodstream.
                
If you're very sick, your doctor may need to measure the level of oxygen in your blood using a blood sample. The sample is taken from an artery, usually in your wrist. This test is called an arterial blood gas test.
                
Bronchoscopy. Bronchoscopy (bron-KOS-ko-pee) is a procedure used to look inside the lungs' airways. If you're in the hospital and treatment with antibiotics isn't working well, your doctor may use this procedure.
                
Your doctor passes a thin, flexible tube through your nose or mouth, down your throat, and into the airways. The tube has a light and small camera that allow your doctor to see your windpipe and airways and take pictures.
                
Your doctor can see whether something is blocking your airways or whether another factor is contributing to your pneumonia."
53,How to diagnose What I need to know about Crohn's Disease ?,"A doctor will perform a physical exam and tests to diagnose Crohns disease. During your visit, the doctor will ask about your symptoms and medical history.
                
The doctor may order blood tests, which involve drawing blood at a health care providers office or commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. Blood tests can show anemia caused by bleeding. Anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which means less oxygen is carried to the bodys cells. Blood tests can also show a high white blood cell count, a sign of chronic inflammation.
                

                
You may also be asked for a stool sample. A stool test is commonly used to rule out other causes of GI diseases, such as infections. The doctor will give you a container for catching and storing the stool. The sample is returned to the doctor or a commercial facility and sent to a lab for analysis. A stool sample can also be used to check if you have bleeding or inflammation.
                
Other tests may be needed to diagnose Crohn's disease. The following tests are all performed at a hospital or outpatient center.
                
- Colonoscopy. Colonoscopy is the most commonly used test to specifically diagnose Crohns disease. This test is used to look inside your rectum, entire colon, and ileum. The health care provider will give you written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test. You may need to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the test. You will need to take laxatives and enemas the evening before the test, and you will likely have one or more enemas about 2 hours before the test. A laxative is medicine that loosens stool and increases bowel movements. An enema involves flushing water, laxative, or sometimes a mild soap solution into the anus using a special squirt bottle.  For the test, you will lie on a table while the doctor inserts a flexible tube into your anus. A small camera on the tube sends a video image of the intestinal lining to a computer screen. The doctor can see inflammation, ulcers, or bleeding. The doctor may also perform a biopsy. The doctor will look at the tissue with a microscope to confirm the diagnosis of Crohns disease. In most cases, youll be given a light sedative, and possibly pain medicine, to help you relax. You will not feel the biopsy.  Cramping or bloating may occur during the first hour after the test. Driving is not permitted for 24 hours after the test to allow the sedative time to wear off. Before the appointment, you should make plans for a ride home. By the next day, you should fully recover and go back to your normal diet.    - Flexible sigmoidoscopy. This test is used to look inside the rectum and lower colon. The health care provider will give you written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test. You may need to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the test. You may also need a laxative or enema the night before the test. And youll have one or more enemas about 2 hours before the procedure.  For the test, you will lie on a table while the doctor inserts a flexible tube into your anus. You will not need a sedative for the test. A small camera on the tube sends a video image of the intestinal lining to a computer screen. The doctor can see inflammation, ulcers, or bleeding. The doctor may also perform a biopsy by snipping a bit of tissue from the intestinal lining. The doctor will look at the tissue with a microscope to confirm the diagnosis of Crohns disease. You will not feel the biopsy.  You can usually go back to your normal diet after the test, though you may have cramping or bloating during the first hour after the test.    - Computerized tomography (CT) scan. A CT scan uses x rays and computers to create images of the inside of the body. For the test, you will lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. The technician may give you a solution to drink and an injection of a special dye through a needle inserted into an arm vein. You will not need a sedative for the test. CT scans can be used to help diagnose Crohn's disease.    - Upper GI series (x rays). An upper GI series may be done to look at the small intestine. No eating or drinking is allowed for 8 hours before the procedure. You will not need a sedative for the test. During the procedure, you will stand or sit in front of an x-ray machine and drink barium, a chalky liquid. The barium coats the small intestine, making signs of the disease show up more clearly on x rays.  After the test, you may go back to your normal diet, though you may have nausea or bloating for a short time. Traces of barium in the GI tract cause stools to be white or light colored for a few days after the test.    - Lower GI series (x rays). A lower GI series may be done to look at the large intestine. The health care provider will give you written bowel prep instructions to follow at home before the test. You will be asked to follow a clear liquid diet for 1 to 3 days before the test. A laxative or enema is usually used the evening before a lower GI series. Enemas are sometimes repeated the morning of the test.  For the test, you will lie on a table while the doctor inserts a flexible tube into your anus. You will not need a sedative for the test. The large intestine is filled with barium, making signs of the disease show up more clearly on x rays. After the test, you may go back to your normal diet, though you may have bloating. You also may have some soreness of the anus. Traces of barium in the GI tract cause stools to be white or light colored for a few days after the test."
54,Do you have information about Native American Health,"Summary : Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from:       - Genetics    - Environmental factors    - Access to care    - Cultural factors        On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Native Americans."
55,How many people are affected by Gorlin syndrome ?,"Gorlin syndrome affects an estimated 1 in 31,000 people. While more than 1 million new cases of basal cell carcinoma are diagnosed each year in the United States, fewer than 1 percent of these skin cancers are related to Gorlin syndrome."
56,What are the symptoms of Radio renal syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Radio renal syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Radio renal syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of the elbow 90% Abnormality of the palate 90% Abnormality of the pleura 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Downturned corners of mouth 90% Micromelia 90% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 90% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Abnormality of chromosome stability - Absent radius - Absent thumb - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Ectopic kidney - External ear malformation - Renal agenesis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
57,What are the treatments for Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica ?,Treatment of Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica is symptomatic. Myoclonus and seizures may be treated with drugs like valproate.
58,What are the treatments for Attention Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder ?,"The usual course of treatment may include medications such as methylphenidate (Ritalin) or dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine), which are stimulants that decrease impulsivity and hyperactivity and increase attention. Most experts agree that treatment for ADHD should address multiple aspects of the individual's functioning and should not be limited to the use of medications alone. Treatment should include structured classroom management, parent education (to address discipline and limit-setting), and tutoring and/or behavioral therapy for the child."
59,What is (are) Cornelia de Lange syndrome ?,"Cornelia de Lange syndrome is a developmental disorder that affects many parts of the body. The features of this disorder vary widely among affected individuals and range from relatively mild to severe.  Cornelia de Lange syndrome is characterized by slow growth before and after birth leading to short stature; intellectual disability that is usually moderate to severe; and abnormalities of bones in the arms, hands, and fingers. Most people with Cornelia de Lange syndrome also have distinctive facial features, including arched eyebrows that often meet in the middle (synophrys), long eyelashes, low-set ears, small and widely spaced teeth, and a small and upturned nose. Many affected individuals also have behavior problems similar to autism, a developmental condition that affects communication and social interaction.  Additional signs and symptoms of Cornelia de Lange syndrome can include excessive body hair (hypertrichosis), an unusually small head (microcephaly), hearing loss, and problems with the digestive tract. Some people with this condition are born with an opening in the roof of the mouth called a cleft palate. Seizures, heart defects, and eye problems have also been reported in people with this condition."
60,What to do for Gas in the Digestive Tract ?,"- Gas is air in the digestive tract.  - Everyone has gas. However, many people think they pass gas too often and that they have too much gas. Having too much gas is rare.  - Gas in the digestive tract is usually caused by swallowing air and by the breakdown of certain foods in the large intestine by bacteria.  - Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas. In contrast, fats and proteins cause little gas.  - Foods that produce gas in one person may not cause gas for someone else.  - The most common symptoms of gas are burping, passing gas, bloating, and abdominal pain or discomfort.  - Gas can be treated by reducing swallowed air, making dietary changes, or taking over-the-counter or prescription medications."
61,What are the genetic changes related to metachromatic leukodystrophy ?,"Most individuals with metachromatic leukodystrophy have mutations in the ARSA gene, which provides instructions for making the enzyme arylsulfatase A. This enzyme is located in cellular structures called lysosomes, which are the cell's recycling centers. Within lysosomes, arylsulfatase A helps break down sulfatides. A few individuals with metachromatic leukodystrophy have mutations in the PSAP gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is broken up (cleaved) into smaller proteins that assist enzymes in breaking down various fats. One of these smaller proteins is called saposin B; this protein works with arylsulfatase A to break down sulfatides.  Mutations in the ARSA or PSAP genes result in a decreased ability to break down sulfatides, resulting in the accumulation of these substances in cells. Excess sulfatides are toxic to the nervous system. The accumulation gradually destroys myelin-producing cells, leading to the impairment of nervous system function that occurs in metachromatic leukodystrophy.  In some cases, individuals with very low arylsulfatase A activity show no symptoms of metachromatic leukodystrophy. This condition is called pseudoarylsulfatase deficiency."
62,What are the treatments for Pitt-Hopkins syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Pitt-Hopkins Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pitt-Hopkins syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
63,What is (are) cherubism ?,"Cherubism is a disorder characterized by abnormal bone tissue in the lower part of the face. Beginning in early childhood, both the lower jaw (the mandible) and the upper jaw (the maxilla) become enlarged as bone is replaced with painless, cyst-like growths. These growths give the cheeks a swollen, rounded appearance and often interfere with normal tooth development. In some people the condition is so mild that it may not be noticeable, while other cases are severe enough to cause problems with vision, breathing, speech, and swallowing. Enlargement of the jaw usually continues throughout childhood and stabilizes during puberty. The abnormal growths are gradually replaced with normal bone in early adulthood. As a result, many affected adults have a normal facial appearance.  Most people with cherubism have few, if any, signs and symptoms affecting other parts of the body. Rarely, however, this condition occurs as part of another genetic disorder. For example, cherubism can occur with Ramon syndrome, which also involves short stature, intellectual disability, and overgrowth of the gums (gingival fibrosis). Additionally, cherubism has been reported in rare cases of Noonan syndrome (a developmental disorder characterized by unusual facial characteristics, short stature, and heart defects) and fragile X syndrome (a condition primarily affecting males that causes learning disabilities and cognitive impairment)."
64,What are the treatments for Glaucoma ?,"Although open-angle glaucoma cannot be cured, it can usually be controlled. While treatments may save remaining vision, they do not improve sight already lost from glaucoma. The most common treatments for glaucoma are medication and surgery. Medications  Medications for glaucoma may be either in the form of eye drops or pills. Some drugs reduce pressure by slowing the flow of fluid into the eye. Others help to improve fluid drainage. (Watch the video to learn more about coping with glaucoma. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.) For most people with glaucoma, regular use of medications will control the increased fluid pressure. But, these drugs may stop working over time. Or, they may cause side effects. If a problem occurs, the eye care professional may select other drugs, change the dose, or suggest other ways to deal with the problem.  Read or listen to ways some patients are coping with glaucoma. Surgery Laser surgery is another treatment for glaucoma. During laser surgery, a strong beam of light is focused on the part of the anterior chamber where the fluid leaves the eye. This results in a series of small changes that makes it easier for fluid to exit the eye. Over time, the effect of laser surgery may wear off. Patients who have this form of surgery may need to keep taking glaucoma drugs. Researching Causes and Treatments Through studies in the laboratory and with patients, NEI is seeking better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with glaucoma. For example, researchers have discovered genes that could help explain how glaucoma damages the eye. NEI also is supporting studies to learn more about who is likely to get glaucoma, when to treat people who have increased eye pressure, and which treatment to use first."
65,What are the symptoms of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease? Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is divided into classic and severe (connatal) types. Although these two types differ in severity, their symptoms can overlap. Classic Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is the more common type. Within the first year of life, those affected with classic Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease typically experience weak muscle tone (hypotonia), involuntary movements of the eyes (nystagmus), and delayed development of motor skills such as crawling or walking. As the child gets older, nystagmus may improve, but other movement disorders develop, including muscle stiffness (spasticity), problems with movement and balance (ataxia), and involuntary jerking (choreiform movements). Cognitive abilities may be impaired, but speech and language are usually present. Severe or connatal Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is the more severe of the two types. Symptoms are usually present at birth or develop in the first few weeks of life. Features include nystagmus, problems feeding, a whistling sound when breathing, progressive spasticity leading to joint deformities (contractures) that restrict movement, speech difficulties (dysarthria), ataxia, and seizures. Children often have short stature and poor weight gain. Those affected with connatal Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease don't walk or develop effective use of their upper limbs. Verbal expression is usually severely affected, but comprehension may be significant. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Nystagmus 100% Psychomotor deterioration 100% Abnormal pyramidal signs 90% Ataxia 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Cerebral cortical atrophy 90% Decreased body weight 90% Developmental regression 90% Dystonia 90% Gait disturbance 90% Hypertonia 90% Incoordination 90% Kyphosis 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Optic atrophy 90% Premature birth 90% Progressive spastic quadriplegia 90% Scoliosis 90% Slow progression 90% Visual impairment 90% Choreoathetosis 75% Dysarthria 75% Dysphagia 75% Reduction of oligodendroglia 75% Sudanophilic leukodystrophy 75% Abnormality of the urinary system 50% Abnormality of visual evoked potentials 50% Arteriovenous malformation 50% Bowel incontinence 50% Chorea 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Delayed speech and language development 50% Failure to thrive 50% Head titubation 50% Hearing impairment 50% Microcephaly 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Recurrent respiratory infections 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Seizures 50% Short stature 50% Congenital laryngeal stridor 7.5% Peripheral neuropathy 7.5% Hyporeflexia 4/7 Cerebral dysmyelination - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Rotary nystagmus - Scanning speech - Tremor - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
66,What is (are) Corneal Disorders ?,"Your cornea is the outermost layer of your eye. It is clear and shaped like a dome. The cornea helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. It also helps your eye to focus. If you wear contact lenses, they float on top of your corneas.     Problems with the cornea include       - Refractive errors    - Allergies    - Infections    - Injuries    - Dystrophies - conditions in which parts of the cornea lose clarity due to a buildup of cloudy material       Treatments of corneal disorders include medicines, corneal transplantation, and corneal laser surgery.     NIH: National Eye Institute"
67,What are the genetic changes related to Vohwinkel syndrome ?,"The classic form of Vohwinkel syndrome is caused by mutations in the GJB2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called gap junction beta 2, more commonly known as connexin 26. Connexin 26 is a member of the connexin protein family. Connexin proteins form channels called gap junctions that permit the transport of nutrients, charged atoms (ions), and signaling molecules between neighboring cells that are in contact with each other. Gap junctions made with connexin 26 transport potassium ions and certain small molecules.  Connexin 26 is found in cells throughout the body, including the inner ear and the skin. In the inner ear, channels made from connexin 26 are found in a snail-shaped structure called the cochlea. These channels may help to maintain the proper level of potassium ions required for the conversion of sound waves to electrical nerve impulses. This conversion is essential for normal hearing. In addition, connexin 26 may be involved in the maturation of certain cells in the cochlea. Connexin 26 also plays a role in the growth, maturation, and stability of the outermost layer of skin (the epidermis).  The GJB2 gene mutations that cause Vohwinkel syndrome change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in connexin 26. The altered protein probably disrupts the function of normal connexin 26 in cells, and may interfere with the function of other connexin proteins. This disruption could affect skin growth and also impair hearing by disturbing the conversion of sound waves to nerve impulses.  The variant form of Vohwinkel syndrome, sometimes called loricrin keratoderma, is caused by mutations in the LOR gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called loricrin, which is involved in the formation and maintenance of the epidermis, particularly its tough outer surface (the stratum corneum). The stratum corneum, which is formed in a process known as cornification, provides a sturdy barrier between the body and its environment. Each cell of the stratum corneum, called a corneocyte, is surrounded by a protein shell called a cornified envelope. Loricrin is a major component of the cornified envelope. Links between loricrin and other components of the envelopes hold the corneocytes together and help give the stratum corneum its strength.  Mutations in the LOR gene change the structure of the loricrin protein; the altered protein is trapped inside the cell and cannot reach the cornified envelope. While other proteins can partially compensate for the missing loricrin, the envelope of some corneocytes is thinner than normal in affected individuals, resulting in ichthyosis and the other skin abnormalities associated with the variant form of Vohwinkel syndrome."
68,What are the symptoms of Sleep Apnea ?,"Major Signs and Symptoms
                
One of the most common signs of obstructive sleep apnea is loud and chronic (ongoing) snoring. Pauses may occur in the snoring. Choking or gasping may follow the pauses.
                
The snoring usually is loudest when you sleep on your back; it might be less noisy when you turn on your side. You might not snore every night. Over time, however, the snoring can happen more often and get louder.
                
You're asleep when the snoring or gasping happens. You likely won't know that you're having problems breathing or be able to judge how severe the problem is. A family member or bed partner often will notice these problems before you do.
                
Not everyone who snores has sleep apnea.
                
Another common sign of sleep apnea is fighting sleepiness during the day, at work, or while driving. You may find yourself rapidly falling asleep during the quiet moments of the day when you're not active. Even if you don't have daytime sleepiness, talk with your doctor if you have problems breathing during sleep.
                
Other Signs and Symptoms
                
Others signs and symptoms of sleep apnea include:
                
Morning headaches
                
Memory or learning problems and not being able to concentrate
                
Feeling irritable, depressed, or having mood swings or personality changes
                
Waking up frequently to urinate
                
Dry mouth or sore throat when you wake up
                
In children, sleep apnea can cause hyperactivity, poor school performance, and angry or hostile behavior. Children who have sleep apnea also may breathe through their mouths instead of their noses during the day."
69,What are the symptoms of Vohwinkel syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Vohwinkel syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Vohwinkel syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Abnormality of the genital system 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Abnormality of the toenails 7.5% Alopecia 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Ichthyosis 7.5% Osteolysis 7.5% Self-injurious behavior 7.5% Amniotic constriction ring - Autoamputation of digits - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Honeycomb palmoplantar keratoderma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
70,What is (are) histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome ?,"Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome (also known as SLC29A3 spectrum disorder) is a group of conditions with overlapping signs and symptoms that affect many parts of the body. This group of disorders includes H syndrome, pigmented hypertrichosis with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (PHID), Faisalabad histiocytosis, and familial Rosai-Dorfman disease (also known as sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy or SHML). These conditions were once thought to be distinct disorders; however, because of the overlapping features and shared genetic cause, they are now considered to be part of the same disease spectrum. While some affected individuals have signs and symptoms characteristic of one of the conditions, others have a range of features from two or more of the conditions. The pattern of signs and symptoms can vary even within the same family.  A feature common to the disorders in this spectrum is histiocytosis, which is the overgrowth of immune system cells called histiocytes. The cells abnormally accumulate in one or more tissues in the body, which can lead to organ or tissue damage. The buildup often occurs in the lymph nodes, leading to swelling of the lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy). Other areas of cell accumulation can include the skin, kidneys, brain and spinal cord (central nervous system), or digestive tract.  This spectrum is known as histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome because the disorders that make up the spectrum can have additional signs and symptoms. A characteristic feature of H syndrome is abnormal patches of skin (lesions), typically on the lower body. These lesions are unusually dark (hyperpigmented) and have excessive hair growth (hypertrichosis). In addition, histiocytes accumulate at the site of the skin lesions. Other features of H syndrome include enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly), heart abnormalities, hearing loss, reduced amounts of hormones that direct sexual development (hypogonadism), and short stature.  Like H syndrome, PHID causes patches of hyperpigmented skin with hypertrichosis. PHID is also characterized by the development of type 1 diabetes (also known as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus), which usually begins in childhood. Type 1 diabetes occurs when the body does not produce enough of the hormone insulin, leading to dysregulation of blood sugar levels.  Faisalabad histiocytosis typically causes lymphadenopathy and swelling of the eyelids due to accumulation of histiocytes. Affected individuals can also have joint deformities called contractures in their fingers or toes and hearing loss.  The most common feature of familial Rosai-Dorfman disease is lymphadenopathy, usually affecting lymph nodes in the neck. Histiocytes can also accumulate in other parts of the body."
71,What is the outlook for Monomelic Amyotrophy ?,"The symptoms of MMA usually progress slowly for one to two years before reaching a plateau, and then remain stable for many years. Disability is generally slight. Rarely, the weakness progresses to the opposite limb. There is also a slowly progressive variant of MMA known as O'Sullivan-McLeod syndrome, which only affects the small muscles of the hand and forearm and has a slowly progressive course."
72,What is (are) Breast Cancer ?,"The body is made up of many types of cells. Normally, cells grow, divide, and produce more cells as needed to keep the body healthy. Sometimes, however, the process goes wrong. Cells become abnormal and form more cells in an uncontrolled way. These extra cells form a mass of tissue, called a growth or tumor. Tumors can be benign, which means not cancerous, or malignant, which means cancerous."
73,Is otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
74,What are the symptoms of Treacher Collins syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Treacher Collins syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Treacher Collins syndrome vary greatly, ranging from almost unnoticeable to severe. Most affected people have underdeveloped facial bones, particularly the cheek bones, and a very small jaw and chin (micrognathia). Some people with this condition are also born with an opening in the roof of the mouth called a cleft palate. In severe cases, underdevelopment of the facial bones may restrict an affected infant's airway, causing potentially life-threatening respiratory problems. People with Treacher Collins syndrome often have eyes that slant downward, sparse eyelashes, and a notch in the lower eyelids called a coloboma. Some people have additional eye abnormalities that can lead to vision loss. The condition is also characterized by absent, small, or unusually formed ears. Defects in the middle ear (which contains three small bones that transmit sound) cause hearing loss in about half of affected people. People with Treacher Collins syndrome usually have normal intelligence.  You can read additional information about the features of Treacher Collins syndrome through MedlinePlus and GeneReviews. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Treacher Collins syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of bone mineral density 90% Dental malocclusion 90% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 90% Malar flattening 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Small face 90% Abnormality of the pinna 77% Lower eyelid coloboma 69% Sparse lower eyelashes 53% Abnormality of the eyelashes 50% Atresia of the external auditory canal 50% Cleft eyelid 50% Conductive hearing impairment 50% Frontal bossing 50% Low anterior hairline 50% Reduced number of teeth 50% Strabismus 50% Visual impairment 50% Wide nasal bridge 50% Visual loss 37% Abnormality of the auditory canal 36% Cleft soft palate 32% Projection of scalp hair onto lateral cheek 26% Abnormality of cardiovascular system morphology 7.5% Abnormality of dental enamel 7.5% Abnormality of dental morphology 7.5% Abnormality of parotid gland 7.5% Abnormality of the adrenal glands 7.5% Abnormality of the thyroid gland 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thymus 7.5% Bilateral microphthalmos 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Choanal atresia 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cleft upper lip 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Encephalocele 7.5% Facial cleft 7.5% Glossoptosis 7.5% Hypertelorism 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Hypoplasia of the pharynx 7.5% Iris coloboma 7.5% Lacrimal duct stenosis 7.5% Multiple enchondromatosis 7.5% Narrow mouth 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Preauricular skin tag 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Scrotal hypoplasia 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Trismus 7.5% Upper eyelid coloboma 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Wide mouth 7.5% Intellectual disability 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
75,How to diagnose Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer ?,"Tests that examine the mouth and throat are used to detect (find), diagnose, and stage lip and oral cavity cancer. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam of the lips and oral cavity: An exam to check the lips and oral cavity for abnormal areas. The medical doctor or dentist will feel the entire inside of the mouth with a gloved finger and examine the oral cavity with a small long-handled mirror and lights. This will include checking the insides of the cheeks and lips; the gums; the roof and floor of the mouth; and the top, bottom, and sides of the tongue. The neck will be felt for swollen lymph nodes. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and medical and dental treatments will also be taken.    -   Endoscopy : A procedure to look at organs and tissues inside the body to check for abnormal areas. An endoscope is inserted through an incision (cut) in the skin or opening in the body, such as the mouth. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove tissue or lymph node samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of disease.     -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist. If leukoplakia is found, cells taken from the patches are also checked under the microscope for signs of cancer.     -  Exfoliative cytology : A procedure to collect cells from the lip or oral cavity. A piece of cotton, a brush, or a small wooden stick is used to gently scrape cells from the lips, tongue, mouth, or throat. The cells are viewed under a microscope to find out if they are abnormal.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).     -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   Barium swallow : A series of x-rays of the esophagus and stomach. The patient drinks a liquid that contains barium (a silver-white metallic compound). The liquid coats the esophagus and x-rays are taken. This procedure is also called an upper GI series.     -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.     -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones and is detected by a scanner."
76,What is (are) Human T-cell leukemia virus type 2 ?,"Human T-cell leukemia virus, type 2 (HTLV-2) is a retroviral infection that affect the T cells (a type of white blood cell). Although this virus generally causes no signs or symptoms, scientists suspect that some affected people may later develop neurological problems and/or chronic lung infections. HTLV-2 is spread by blood transfusions, sexual contact and sharing needles. It can also be spread from mother to child during birth or breast-feeding. There is no cure or treatment for HTLV-2 and it is considered a lifelong condition; however, most infected people remain asymptomatic (show no symptoms) throughout life."
77,What are the treatments for MTHFR gene mutation ?,"How might a MTHFR gene mutation be treated? High homocysteine levels in the body may occur if the MTHFR enzyme is not functioning normally due to MTHFR mutations, such as C677T and A1298C. Currently there are no treatments to remove adverse risks associated with MTHFR gene mutations. However, elevated levels of homocysteine can also occur if there is a lack of folate or B vitamins. Homocysteine levels also tend to rise with age, smoking, and use of certain drugs (such as carbamazepine, methotrexate, and phenytoin). It is important to ensure that people with and without MTHFR gene mutations receive adequate amounts of naturally occurring folate, choline, and B vitamins (B12, B6, and riboflavin) to mitigate nutritional risks. If adequate nutrition cannot be attained through diet alone, supplementation with folate (e.g., levomefolate (5-methyl THF) or folinic acid) and B vitamins is considered. We recommend that you talk to your doctor to learn if supplementation would benefit you. Smoking cessation and, when possible, avoidance of medications that adversely affect homocystiene level are additional management strategies."
78,What are the symptoms of Fragile X syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Fragile X syndrome? Fragile X syndrome is characterized by developmental problems including intellectual disability and delayed speech and language development. Males are usually more severely affected than females. Additional features may include anxiety; attention deficit disorder (ADD); features of autism spectrum disorders that affect communication and social interaction; and seizures. Most males and some females with fragile X syndrome have characteristic physical features that become more apparent with age. These features may include a long and narrow face; large ears; a prominent jaw and forehead; unusually flexible fingers; flat feet; and in males, enlarged testicles (macroorchidism) after puberty. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Fragile X syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Macroorchidism 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Otitis media 90% Pes planus 90% Abnormality of the pinna 50% Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 50% Frontal bossing 50% Intellectual disability, moderate 50% Long face 50% Macrocephaly 50% Mandibular prognathia 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Narrow face 50% Sinusitis 50% Abnormality of the mitral valve 7.5% Autism 7.5% Cerebral cortical atrophy 7.5% Dilatation of the ascending aorta 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Self-injurious behavior 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Abnormal head movements - Coarse facial features - Congenital macroorchidism - Folate-dependent fragile site at Xq28 - Hyperactivity - Incomplete penetrance - Joint laxity - Large forehead - Macroorchidism, postpubertal - Macrotia - Mitral valve prolapse - Pectus excavatum - Periventricular gray matter heterotopia - Poor eye contact - Scoliosis - X-linked dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
79,What is (are) Alzheimer's Disease ?,"Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related, non-reversible brain disorder that develops over a period of years. Initially, people experience memory loss and confusion, which may be mistaken for the kinds of memory changes that are sometimes associated with normal aging. However, the symptoms of AD gradually lead to behavior and personality changes, a decline in cognitive abilities such as decision-making and language skills, and problems recognizing family and friends. AD ultimately leads to a severe loss of mental function. These losses are related to the worsening breakdown of the connections between certain neurons in the brain and their eventual death. AD is one of a group of disorders called dementias that are characterized by cognitive and behavioral problems. It is the most common cause of dementia among people age 65 and older.
                
There are three major hallmarks in the brain that are associated with the disease processes of AD.
                
- Amyloid plaques, which are made up of fragments of a protein called beta-amyloid peptide mixed with a collection of additional proteins, remnants of neurons, and bits and pieces of other nerve cells. - Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), found inside neurons, are abnormal collections of a protein called tau. Normal tau is required for healthy neurons. However, in AD, tau clumps together. As a result, neurons fail to function normally and eventually die. - Loss of connections between neurons responsible for memory and learning. Neurons can't survive when they lose their connections to other neurons. As neurons die throughout the brain, the affected regions begin to atrophy, or shrink. By the final stage of AD, damage is widespread and brain tissue has shrunk significantly."
80,What is the outlook for Machado-Joseph Disease ?,"Most individuals with Lyme disease respond well to antibiotics and have full recovery. In a small percentage of individuals, symptoms may continue or recur, requiring additional antibiotic treatment. Varying degrees of permanent joint or nervous system damage may develop in individuals with late-stage Lyme disease."
81,What are the treatments for aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Deficiency of aromatic-L-amino-acid decarboxylase   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
82,What is (are) Sinusitis ?,"Sinusitis means your sinuses are inflamed. The cause can be an infection or another problem. Your sinuses are hollow air spaces within the bones surrounding the nose. They produce mucus, which drains into the nose. If your nose is swollen, this can block the sinuses and cause pain.    There are several types of sinusitis, including       - Acute, which lasts up to 4 weeks    - Subacute, which lasts 4 to 12 weeks    - Chronic, which lasts more than 12 weeks and can continue for months or even years    - Recurrent, with several attacks within a year       Acute sinusitis often starts as a cold, which then turns into a bacterial infection. Allergies, nasal problems, and certain diseases can also cause acute and chronic sinusitis.    Symptoms of sinusitis can include fever, weakness, fatigue, cough, and congestion. There may also be mucus drainage in the back of the throat, called postnasal drip. Your health care professional diagnoses sinusitis based on your symptoms and an examination of your nose and face. You may also need imaging tests. Treatments include antibiotics, decongestants, and pain relievers. Using heat pads on the inflamed area, saline nasal sprays, and vaporizers can also help.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
83,What are the genetic changes related to pyruvate carboxylase deficiency ?,"Mutations in the PC gene cause pyruvate carboxylase deficiency.  The PC gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called pyruvate carboxylase. This enzyme is active in mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers within cells. It is involved in several important cellular functions including the generation of glucose, a simple sugar that is the body's main energy source. Pyruvate carboxylase also plays a role in the formation of the protective sheath that surrounds certain nerve cells (myelin) and the production of brain chemicals called neurotransmitters.  Mutations in the PC gene reduce the amount of pyruvate carboxylase in cells or disrupt the enzyme's activity. The missing or altered enzyme cannot carry out its essential role in generating glucose, which impairs the body's ability to make energy in mitochondria. Additionally, a loss of pyruvate carboxylase allows potentially toxic compounds such as lactic acid and ammonia to build up and damage organs and tissues. Researchers suggest that the loss of pyruvate carboxylase function in the nervous system, particularly the role of the enzyme in myelin formation and neurotransmitter production, also contributes to the neurologic features of pyruvate carboxylase deficiency."
84,What are the genetic changes related to RAPADILINO syndrome ?,"Mutations in the RECQL4 gene cause RAPADILINO syndrome. This gene provides instructions for making one member of a protein family called RecQ helicases. Helicases are enzymes that bind to DNA and temporarily unwind the two spiral strands (double helix) of the DNA molecule. This unwinding is necessary for copying (replicating) DNA in preparation for cell division and for repairing damaged DNA. The RECQL4 protein helps stabilize genetic information in the body's cells and plays a role in replicating and repairing DNA.  The most common RECQL4 gene mutation involved in RAPADILINO syndrome causes the RECQL4 protein to be pieced together incorrectly. This genetic change results in the production of a protein that is missing a region called exon 7 and is unable to act as a helicase. The loss of helicase function may prevent normal DNA replication and repair, causing widespread damage to a person's genetic information over time. These changes may result in the accumulation of DNA errors and cell death, although it is unclear exactly how RECQL4 gene mutations lead to the specific features of RAPADILINO syndrome."
85,What are the symptoms of Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Stuve-Wiedemann syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the autonomic nervous system 90% Feeding difficulties in infancy 90% Hyperhidrosis 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Micromelia 90% Paresthesia 90% Short stature 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Apnea 50% Asthma 50% Camptodactyly of toe 50% Genu valgum 50% Impaired pain sensation 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Lacrimation abnormality 50% Oligohydramnios 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Scoliosis 50% Talipes 50% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Sacral dimple 7.5% Abnormal metaphyseal trabeculation - Abnormality of dental enamel - Absent patellar reflexes - Adducted thumb - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blotching pigmentation of the skin - Broad ischia - Contracture of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 5th finger - Dysautonomia - Dysphagia - Elbow flexion contracture - Episodic fever - Feeding difficulties - Femoral bowing - Flared metaphysis - Frontal bossing - Hoarse voice - Hypoplasia of midface - Hypoplastic iliac body - Knee flexion contracture - Low-set ears - Malar flattening - Metaphyseal rarefaction - Myotonia - Nasal speech - Opacification of the corneal stroma - Osteoporosis - Pathologic fracture - Pulmonary arterial medial hypertrophy - Pulmonary hypertension - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Pursed lips - Short neck - Short nose - Short palpebral fissure - Short phalanx of finger - Short tibia - Single transverse palmar crease - Smooth tongue - Square face - Talipes valgus - Thickened cortex of long bones - Thin ribs - Thin skin - Tibial bowing - Ulnar deviation of finger - Wide nasal base - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
86,What is (are) Chandler's syndrome ?,"Chandler's syndrome is a rare eye disorder in which the single layer of cells lining the interior of the cornea proliferates, causing changes within the iris, corneal swelling, and unusually high pressure in the eye (glaucoma). This condition is one of three syndromes, along with progressive iris atrophy and Cogan-Reese syndrome, that make up the iridocorneal endothelial (ICE) syndrome. In most cases, only one eye is affected. Symptoms may include reduced vision and pain. Chandler's syndrome more often affects females and usually presents sometime during middle age. The cause of this disease is unknown."
87,What are the symptoms of Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency? People with succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADH) typically have developmental delay, especially involving speech development; intellectual disability; and decreased muscle tone (hypotonia) soon after birth. About half of those affected experience seizures, difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), decreased reflexes, and behavioral problems. The most common behavioral problems associated with this condition are sleep disturbances, hyperactivity, difficulty maintaining attention, and anxiety. Less frequently, affected individuals may have increased aggression, hallucinations, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and self-injurious behavior, including biting and head banging. People with this condition can also have problems controlling eye movements. Less common features of SSADH include uncontrollable movements of the limbs (choreoathetosis), involuntary tensing of the muscles (dystonia), muscle twitches (myoclonus), and a progressive worsening of ataxia. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Incoordination 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Seizures 50% Abnormality of eye movement - Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Absence seizures - Aggressive behavior - Anxiety - Ataxia - Autism - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Delayed speech and language development - EEG abnormality - Generalized myoclonic seizures - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures - Hallucinations - Hyperactivity - Hyperkinesis - Hyporeflexia - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Motor delay - Phenotypic variability - Psychosis - Self-injurious behavior - Status epilepticus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
88,What are the genetic changes related to Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease ?,"Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is caused by mutations in many different genes. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are involved in the function of peripheral nerves in the feet, legs, and hands. The gene mutations that cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease affect the function of the proteins in ways that are not fully understood; however, they likely impair axons, which transmit nerve impulses, or affect the specialized cells that produce myelin. As a result, peripheral nerve cells slowly lose the ability to stimulate the muscles and to transmit sensory signals to the brain.  The list of genes associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease continues to grow as researchers study this disorder. Different mutations within a particular gene may cause signs and symptoms of differing severities or lead to different types of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.  CMT1 is caused by mutations in the following genes: PMP22 (CMT1A and CMT1E), MPZ (CMT1B), LITAF (CMT1C), EGR2 (CMT1D), and NEFL (CMT1F).  CMT2 can result from alterations in many genes, including MFN2 and KIF1B (CMT2A); RAB7A (CMT2B); LMNA (CMT2B1); TRPV4 (CMT2C); BSCL2 and GARS (CMT2D); NEFL (CMT2E); HSPB1 (CMT2F); MPZ (CMT2I and CMT2J); GDAP1 (CMT2K); and HSPB8 (CMT2L). Certain DNM2 gene mutations also cause a form of CMT2.  CMT4 is caused by mutations in the following genes: GDAP1 (CMT4A), MTMR2 (CMT4B1), SBF2 (CMT4B2), SH3TC2 (CMT4C), NDRG1 (CMT4D), EGR2 (CMT4E), PRX (CMT4F), FGD4 (CMT4H), and FIG4 (CMT4J).  Intermediate forms of the disorder can be caused by alterations in genes including DNM2, MPZ, YARS, and GDAP1. CMTX is caused by mutations in genes including GJB1 (CMTX1) and PRPS1 (CMTX5). Mutations in additional genes, some of which have not been identified, also cause various forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease."
89,What causes Pemphigus vulgaris ?,"What causes pemphigus vulgaris? Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune disorder. The immune system produces antibodies against specific proteins in the skin and mucous membranes. These antibodies create a reaction that cause skin cells to separate. Although it is rare, some cases of pemphigus vulgaris are caused by certain medications. Medications that may cause this condition include: Blood pressure medications called ACE inhibitors Chelating agents such as penicillamine, which remove certain materials from the blood While in many cases the exact cause of pemphigus vulgaris remains unknown, several potentially relevant factors have been identified. Genetic factors: Predisposition to pemphigus is linked to genetic factors.Certain major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules, in particular alleles of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) DR4, appear to confer susceptibility to pemphigus vulgaris. Age: Peak age of onset is from 50-60 years. Infants with neonatal pemphigus typically recover after protection from their mother's antibodies have cleared their systems. The disease may, nonetheless, develop in children or in older persons, as well. Disease association: Pemphigus commonly occurs in individuals who also have other autoimmune diseases, particularly myasthenia gravis and thymoma. Pemphigus is not contagious. It does not spread from person to person. Though there can be a genetic predisposition to develop pemphigus, there is no indication the disease is hereditary."
90,How to diagnose Endocarditis ?,"Your doctor will diagnose infective endocarditis (IE) based on your risk factors, your medical history and signs and symptoms, and test results.
                
Diagnosis of IE often is based on many factors, rather than a single positive test result, sign, or symptom.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
Blood Tests
                
Blood cultures are the most important blood tests used to diagnose IE. Blood is drawn several times over a 24-hour period. It's put in special culture bottles that allow bacteria to grow.
                
Doctors then identify and test the bacteria to see which antibiotics will kill them. Sometimes the blood cultures don't grow any bacteria, even if a person has IE. This is called culture-negative endocarditis, and it requires antibiotic treatment.
                
Other blood tests also are used to diagnose IE. For example, a complete blood count may be used to check the number of red and white blood cells in your blood. Blood tests also may be used to check your immune system and to check for inflammation.
                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography (echo) is a painless test that uses sound waves to create pictures of your heart. Two types of echo are useful in diagnosing IE.
                
Transthoracic (tranz-thor-AS-ik) echo. For this painless test, gel is applied to the skin on your chest. A device called a transducer is moved around on the outside of your chest.
                
This device sends sound waves called ultrasound through your chest. As the ultrasound waves bounce off your heart, a computer converts them into pictures on a screen.
                
Your doctor uses the pictures to look for vegetations, areas of infected tissue (such as an abscess), and signs of heart damage.
                
Because the sound waves have to pass through skin, muscle, tissue, bone, and lungs, the pictures may not have enough detail. Thus, your doctor may recommend transesophageal (tranz-ih-sof-uh-JEE-ul) echo (TEE).
                
Transesophageal echo. For TEE, a much smaller transducer is attached to the end of a long, narrow, flexible tube. The tube is passed down your throat. Before the procedure, you're given medicine to help you relax, and your throat is sprayed with numbing medicine.
                
The doctor then passes the transducer down your esophagus (the passage from your mouth to your stomach). Because this passage is right behind the heart, the transducer can get detailed pictures of the heart's structures.
                
EKG
                
An EKG is a simple, painless test that detects your heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast your heart is beating, whether your heart rhythm is steady or irregular, and the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through your heart.
                
An EKG typically isn't used to diagnose IE. However, it may be done to see whether IE is affecting your heart's electrical activity.
                
For this test, soft, sticky patches called electrodes are attached to your chest, arms, and legs. You lie still while the electrodes detect your heart's electrical signals. A machine records these signals on graph paper or shows them on a computer screen. The entire test usually takes about 10 minutes."
91,What are the symptoms of Chromosome 3p- syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Chromosome 3p- syndrome? The signs and symptoms of chromosome 3p- syndrome and the severity of the condition depend on the exact size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Some affected people appear to have no features or mild features, while others are more severely affected. Common symptoms shared by many people with this condition include: Growth problems both before and after birth Feeding difficulties Developmental delay Poor muscle tone (hypotonia) Intellectual disability Ptosis Distinctive facial features Microcephaly and/or unusual head shape Autism spectrum disorder Other features that may be seen include cleft palate; extra fingers and/or toes; gastrointestinal abnormalities; seizures; hearing impairment; kidney problems; and/or congenital heart defects. To read more about some of the signs and symptoms reported in people with 3p deletion syndrome, you can read Unique's disorder guide entitled '3p25 deletions.' The information in this guide is drawn partly from the published medical literature, and partly from Unique's database of members with a 3p deletion. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chromosome 3p- syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Hypertelorism 90% Long philtrum 90% Ptosis 90% Short stature 90% Telecanthus 90% Abnormality of calvarial morphology 50% Cleft palate 50% Complete atrioventricular canal defect 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Downturned corners of mouth 50% Epicanthus 50% Hearing impairment 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Microcephaly 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Postaxial hand polydactyly 50% Abnormality of periauricular region 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Blepharophimosis 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Hypertonia 7.5% Sacral dimple 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Short neck 7.5% Thin vermilion border 7.5% Triangular face 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% Abnormal renal morphology 5% Atrioventricular canal defect 5% Macular hypoplasia 5% Prominent nasal bridge 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Brachycephaly - Depressed nasal bridge - Feeding difficulties - Flat occiput - High palate - Low-set ears - Periorbital fullness - Postaxial polydactyly - Postnatal growth retardation - Preauricular pit - Prominent metopic ridge - Retrognathia - Spasticity - Synophrys - Trigonocephaly - Upslanted palpebral fissure - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
92,What causes Merkel cell carcinoma ?,"What causes Merkel cell carcinoma? The exact underlying cause of Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is unknown, but several risk factors have been associated with the development of MCC. Having one or more risk factors does not mean that a person will develop MCC; most individuals with risk factors will not develop MCC. Risk factors include:     -being over 50 years of age     -having fair skin     -having a history of extensive sun exposure (natural or artificial)     -having chronic immune suppression, such as after organ transplantation or having HIV Researchers have also found that a virus called Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) is frequently involved in the development of MCC. MCPyV is found in about 80% of tumor cells tested. This virus is thought to alter the DNA in such a way that influences tumor development."
93,What is (are) Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?,"Gingivitis is inflammation of the gums. In gingivitis, the gums become red, swollen and can bleed easily. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease. It can usually be reversed with daily brushing and flossing, and regular cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist. This form of gum disease does not include any loss of bone and tissue that hold teeth in place."
94,How to prevent Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis (LCM) ?,"LCMV infection can be prevented by avoiding contact with wild mice and taking precautions when handling pet rodents (i.e. mice, hamsters, or guinea pigs). 
                
Rarely, pet rodents may become infected with LCMV from wild rodents. Breeders, pet stores, and pet owners should take measures to prevent infestations of wild rodents. Pet rodents should not come into contact with wild rodents. If you have a pet rodent, wash your hands with soap and water (or waterless alcohol-based hand rubs when soap is not available and hands are not visibly soiled) after handling rodents or their cages and bedding. 
                
If you have a rodent infestation in and around your home, take the following precautions to reduce the risk of LCMV infection: 
 
 - Seal up rodent entry holes or gaps with steel wool, lath metal, or caulk. 
 - Trap rats and mice by using an appropriate snap trap. 
 - Clean up rodent food sources and nesting sites and take precautions when cleaning rodent-infected areas: 
   
   - Use cross-ventilation when entering a previously unventilated enclosed room or dwelling prior to cleanup. 
   - Put on rubber, latex, vinyl or nitrile gloves. 
   - Do not stir up dust by vacuuming, sweeping, or any other means. 
   - Thoroughly wet contaminated areas with a bleach solution or household disinfectant. 
   - Hypochlorite (bleach) solution: Mix 1 and 1/2 cups of household bleach in 1 gallon of water. 
   - Once everything is wet, take up contaminated materials with damp towel and then mop or sponge the area with bleach solution or household disinfectant. 
   - Spray dead rodents with disinfectant and then double-bag along with all cleaning materials and throw bag out in an appropriate waste disposal system. 
   - Remove the gloves and thoroughly wash your hands with soap and water (or waterless alcohol-based hand rubs when soap is not available and hands are not visibly soiled). 
    
 
                
The geographic distributions of the rodent hosts are widespread both domestically and abroad. However, infrequent recognition and diagnosis, and historic underreporting of LCM, have limited scientists' ability to estimate incidence rates and prevalence of disease among humans. Understanding the epidemiology of LCM and LCMV infections will help to further delineate risk factors for infection and develop effective preventive strategies. Increasing physician awareness will improve disease recognition and reporting, which may lead to better characterization of the natural history and the underlying immunopathological mechanisms of disease, and stimulate future therapeutic research and development."
95,How to prevent Balance Problems ?,"People are more likely to have problems with balance as they get older. But age is not the only reason these problems occur; there are other causes, too. In some cases, you can help reduce your risk for certain balance problems. Problems in the Inner Ear Some balance disorders are caused by problems in the inner ear. The part of the inner ear that is responsible for balance is the vestibular system, also known as the labyrinth. When the labyrinth becomes infected or swollen, this condition is called labyrinthitis. It is typically accompanied by vertigo and imbalance. Upper respiratory infections and other viral infections, and, less commonly, bacterial infections, can lead to labyrinthitis. Other Causes Other balance diseorers may involve another part of the body, such as the brain or the heart. For example, diseases of the circulatory system, such as stroke, can cause dizziness and other balance problems. Smoking and diabetes can increase the risk of stroke. Low blood pressure can also cause dizziness. Aging, infections, head injury and many medicines may also result in a balance problem. Problems Caused by Medications Balance problems can also result from taking many medications. For example, some medicines, such as those that help lower blood pressure, can make a person feel dizzy. Ototoxic drugs are medicines that damage the inner ear. If your medicine is ototoxic, you may feel off balance. Sometimes the damage lasts only as long as you take the drug; many times it is permanent. Groups of drugs that are more likely to be ototoxic include -  antidepressants  - anti-seizure drugs (anticonvulsants)  -  hypertensive (high blood pressure) drugs  - sedatives  - tranquilizers  -  anxiolytics (anti-anxiety drugs)   - aminoglycosides (a type of antibiotic)   - diuretics  - vasodilators  - certain analgesics (painkillers)  - certain chemotherapeutics (anti-cancer drugs). antidepressants anti-seizure drugs (anticonvulsants) hypertensive (high blood pressure) drugs sedatives tranquilizers anxiolytics (anti-anxiety drugs) aminoglycosides (a type of antibiotic) diuretics vasodilators certain analgesics (painkillers) certain chemotherapeutics (anti-cancer drugs). Check with your doctor if you notice a problem while taking a medication. Ask if other medications can be used instead. If not, ask if the dosage can be safely reduced. Sometimes it cannot. However, your doctor will help you get the medication you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects. Diet and Lifestyle Can Help Your diet and lifestyle can help you manage certain balance-related problems. For example, Mnire's disease, which causes vertigo and other balance and hearing problems, is linked to a change in the volume of fluid in the inner ear. By eating low-salt (low-sodium) or salt-free foods, and steering clear of caffeine and alcohol, you may make Mnire's disease symptoms less severe. See suggestions for limiting salt (sodium) in your diet. Balance problems due to high blood pressure can be managed by eating less salt (less sodium), maintaining a healthy weight, and exercising. Balance problems due to low blood pressure may be managed by drinking plenty of fluids, such as water, avoiding alcohol, and being cautious regarding your body's posture and movement, such as standing up slowly and avoiding crossing your legs when youre seated. Learn more about managing high blood pressure (hypertension). Learn more about manging low blood pressure (hypotension). Prevent Ear Infections The ear infection called otitis media is common in children, but adults can get it too. Otitis media can sometimes cause dizziness. You can help prevent otitis media by washing your hands frequently. Also, talk to your doctor about getting a yearly flu shot to stave off flu-related ear infections. If you still get an ear infection, see a doctor immediately before it becomes more serious. Learn more about otitis media and other ear infections. (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)"
96,What is (are) Goldberg-Shprintzen megacolon syndrome ?,"Goldberg-Shprintzen megacolon syndrome is a very rare genetic condition characterized by Hirschsprung disease, megacolon, small head, widely spaced eyes, cleft palate, short stature, and learning disability. This condition has been described in about 15 individuals to date. Some of the reported cases also had iris coloboma, hypotonia, epilepsy, and ptosis. One of the described patients had sparse scalp hair, a sloping forehead, sparse eyebrows, broad nasal bridge, large ears, pointed chin, ventricular septal defect, hypospadias, syndactyly between the second and third fingers, and clubfeet. This condition appears to be inherited as an autosomal recessive trait and was found to be caused by mutations in the KIAA1279 gene."
97,How many people are affected by frontonasal dysplasia ?,Frontonasal dysplasia is likely a rare condition; at least 100 cases have been reported in the scientific literature.
98,What is (are) Ainhum ?,"Ainhum is the autoamputation of a finger or toe as a result of a fibrotic band that constricts the finger or toe until it falls off. Ainhum most often affects the fifth toe on both feet. Ainhum is believed to be triggered by some sort of trauma, but the exact reason why it happens is not well understood. The condition mainly affects people that live in tropical regions."
99,How to diagnose Chromosome 4q deletion ?,"How is chromosome 4q deletion diagnosed? There are several different specialized tests that can be used to diagnose a chromosome 4q deletion. These include: Karyotype - a karyotype is a laboratory test that produces an image of a person's chromosomes. This test can be used to diagnose large deletions. FISH - a laboratory technique that is used to detect and locate a specific DNA sequence on a chromosome. During FISH, a chromosome is exposed to a small DNA sequence called a probe that has a fluorescent molecule attached to it. The probe sequence binds to its corresponding sequence on the chromosome. This test can be used in combination with karyotyping for deletions that are too small to be seen on karyotype, alone. However, FISH is only useful if the person ordering the test suspects there is a deletion of a specific region of 4q. Array CGH - a technology that detects deletions that are too small to be seen on karyotype."
100,What is (are) Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis ?,"Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN) is a severe skin reaction most often triggered by particular medications. Although Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis were once thought to be separate conditions, they are now considered part of a continuum. Stevens-Johnson syndrome represents the less severe end of the disease spectrum, and toxic epidermal necrolysis represents the more severe end.  SJS/TEN often begins with a fever and flu-like symptoms. Within a few days, the skin begins to blister and peel, forming very painful raw areas called erosions that resemble a severe hot-water burn. The skin erosions usually start on the face and chest before spreading to other parts of the body. In most affected individuals, the condition also damages the mucous membranes, including the lining of the mouth and the airways, which can cause trouble with swallowing and breathing. The painful blistering can also affect the urinary tract and genitals. SJS/TEN often affects the eyes as well, causing irritation and redness of the conjunctiva, which are the mucous membranes that protect the white part of the eye and line the eyelids, and damage to the clear front covering of the eye (the cornea).  Severe damage to the skin and mucous membranes makes SJS/TEN a life-threatening disease. Because the skin normally acts as a protective barrier, extensive skin damage can lead to a dangerous loss of fluids and allow infections to develop. Serious complications can include pneumonia, overwhelming bacterial infections (sepsis), shock, multiple organ failure, and death. About 10 percent of people with Stevens-Johnson syndrome die from the disease, while the condition is fatal in up to 50 percent of those with toxic epidermal necrolysis.  Among people who survive, long-term effects of SJS/TEN can include changes in skin coloring (pigmentation), dryness of the skin and mucous membranes (xerosis), excess sweating (hyperhidrosis), hair loss (alopecia), and abnormal growth or loss of the fingernails and toenails. Other long-term problems can include impaired taste, difficulty urinating, and genital abnormalities. A small percentage of affected individuals develop chronic dryness or inflammation of the eyes, which can lead to increased sensitivity to light (photophobia) and vision impairment."
101,What is (are) Joint Disorders ?,"A joint is where two or more bones come together, like the knee, hip, elbow, or shoulder. Joints can be damaged by many types of injuries or diseases, including       - Arthritis - inflammation of a joint. It causes pain, stiffness, and swelling. Over time, the joint can become severely damaged.    - Bursitis - inflammation of a fluid-filled sac that cushions the joint    - Dislocations - injuries that force the ends of the bones out of position       Treatment of joint problems depends on the cause. If you have a sports injury, treatment often begins with the RICE (Rest, Ice, Compression, and Elevation) method to relieve pain, reduce swelling, and speed healing. Other possible treatments include pain relievers, keeping the injured area from moving, rehabilitation, and sometimes surgery. For arthritis, injuries, or other diseases, you may need joint replacement surgery to remove the damaged joint and put in a new one.    NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
102,What are the symptoms of Chromosome 16p13.3 deletion syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Chromosome 16p13.3 deletion syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chromosome 16p13.3 deletion syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal facial shape - Abnormality of the hairline - Abnormality of the kidney - Autosomal dominant contiguous gene syndrome - Broad hallux - Broad thumb - Clinodactyly of the 5th finger - Convex nasal ridge - Death in infancy - Facial hemangioma - Facial hypertrichosis - Failure to thrive - Feeding difficulties in infancy - High palate - Hypoplastic left heart - Intellectual disability - Low hanging columella - Microcephaly - Muscular hypotonia - Myopia - Nevus sebaceous - Obesity - Polysplenia - Prominent nose - Recurrent infections - Scoliosis - Seizures - Sleep disturbance - Somatic mosaicism - Strabismus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
103,What are the genetic changes related to lattice corneal dystrophy type II ?,"Lattice corneal dystrophy type II is caused by mutations in the GSN gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called gelsolin. This protein is found throughout the body and helps regulate the formation of the network of protein filaments that gives structure to cells (the cytoskeleton). Mutations that cause lattice corneal dystrophy type II change a single protein building block (amino acid) in the gelsolin protein. The altered gelsolin protein is broken down differently than the normal protein, which results in an abnormal gelsolin protein fragment that is released from the cell. These protein fragments clump together and form amyloid deposits, which lead to the signs and symptoms of lattice corneal dystrophy type II."
104,What are the treatments for Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) ?,"Treatment for CCHF is primarily supportive. Care should include careful attention to fluid balance and correction of electrolyte abnormalities, oxygenation and hemodynamic support, and appropriate treatment of secondary infections. The virus is sensitive in vitro to the antiviral drug ribavirin. It has been used in the treatment of CCHF patients reportedly with some benefit. 
Recovery 
                
The long-term effects of CCHF infection have not been studied well enough in survivors to determine whether or not specific complications exist. However, recovery is slow."
105,What is (are) Rheumatoid Arthritis ?,"Rest. People with rheumatoid arthritis need a good balance between rest and exercise; they should rest more when the disease is active and exercise more when it is not. Rest helps to reduce active joint inflammation and pain and to fight fatigue. The length of time for rest will vary from person to person, but in general, shorter rest breaks every now and then are more helpful than long times spent in bed. Exercise. Exercise is important for maintaining healthy and strong muscles, preserving joint mobility, and maintaining flexibility. Exercise can help people sleep well, reduce pain, maintain a positive attitude, and manage weight. Exercise programs should take into account the persons physical abilities, limitations, and changing needs. For more information on exercise classes, you may want to contact the Arthritis Foundation at 1-800-283-7800. Learn more about the health benefits of exercise for older adults.  More information about exercise and physical activity for older adults can be found at Go4Life, the exercise and and physical activity campaign from the National Institute on Aging. Diet. Special diets, vitamin supplements, and other alternative approaches have been suggested for treating rheumatoid arthritis. Although such approaches may not be harmful, scientific studies have not yet shown any benefits. An overall nutritious diet with the right amount of calories, protein, and calcium is important. Some people need to be careful about drinking alcoholic beverages because of the medications they take for rheumatoid arthritis. See Eating Well as You Get Older  to learn more about healthy eating.  Joint Care. Some people find that using a splint for a short time around a painful joint reduces pain and swelling by supporting the joint and letting it rest. Assistive devices may help reduce stress and lessen pain in the joints. Examples include zipper pullers and aids to help with moving in and out of chairs and beds.  Stress Reduction. Finding ways to reduce stress is important. Regular rest periods can help and so can relaxation, distraction, or visualization exercises. Exercise programs, participation in support groups, and good communication with the health care team are other ways to reduce stress.  Learn about relaxation techniques that may relieve tension."
106,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Fahr's Syndrome ?,The NINDS supports and conducts research on neurogenetic disorders such as Fahr's Syndrome. The goals of this research are to locate and understand the actions of the genes involved in this disorder. Finding these genes could lead to effective ways to treat and prevent Fahr's Syndrome.
107,What are the symptoms of Anonychia-onychodystrophy with hypoplasia or absence of distal phalanges ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Anonychia-onychodystrophy with hypoplasia or absence of distal phalanges? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Anonychia-onychodystrophy with hypoplasia or absence of distal phalanges. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Anonychia 90% Aplastic/hypoplastic toenail 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Split hand 90% Triphalangeal thumb 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Complete duplication of thumb phalanx - High palate - Nail dysplasia - Nail dystrophy - Prominent nasal bridge - Prominent nose - Short 5th finger - Short philtrum - Shortening of all distal phalanges of the fingers - Shortening of all distal phalanges of the toes - Underdeveloped nasal alae - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
108,Is Osteogenesis imperfecta type VI inherited ?,"How is osteogenesis imperfecta type 6 inherited? Osteogenesis imperfecta type 6 has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that two copies of the gene in each cell are altered. The parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder typically are not affected, but each carry one copy of the altered gene (they are referred to as carriers). When two carriers for an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier. The children of an individual with an autosomal recessive type of OI are always carriers for a disease-causing mutation."
109,What are the genetic changes related to mucopolysaccharidosis type II ?,"Mutations in the IDS gene cause MPS II. The IDS gene provides instructions for producing the I2S enzyme, which is involved in the breakdown of large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). GAGs were originally called mucopolysaccharides, which is where this condition gets its name. Mutations in the IDS gene reduce or completely eliminate the function of the I2S enzyme. Lack of I2S enzyme activity leads to the accumulation of GAGs within cells, specifically inside the lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments in the cell that digest and recycle different types of molecules. Conditions that cause molecules to build up inside the lysosomes, including MPS II, are called lysosomal storage disorders. The accumulation of GAGs increases the size of the lysosomes, which is why many tissues and organs are enlarged in this disorder. Researchers believe that the GAGs may also interfere with the functions of other proteins inside the lysosomes and disrupt the movement of molecules inside the cell."
110,What is (are) Dendritic cell tumor ?,"A dendritic cell tumor develops from the cells of the immune system.  This condition typically begins in the lymph system and may spread to nearby organs or distant parts of the body (metastasize).  There are five subtypes of dendritic cell tumors: follicular dendritic cell tumor, interdigitating dendritic cell tumor, Langerhans' cell histiocytosis, Langerhans' cell sarcoma, and dendritic cell sarcoma not specified otherwise.  The symptoms and severity of the condition depend on the subtype and location of the tumor.  Treatment may include surgery, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy."
111,What are the symptoms of Idiopathic acute eosinophilic pneumonia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Idiopathic acute eosinophilic pneumonia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Idiopathic acute eosinophilic pneumonia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Chest pain 90% Pulmonary infiltrates 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Abdominal pain 50% Abnormal pattern of respiration 50% Abnormality of eosinophils 50% Abnormality of the pleura 50% Myalgia 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
112,What are the treatments for Colorectal Cancer ?,"For surgery, the main side effects are short-term pain and tenderness around the area of the operation. For chemotherapy, the side effects depend on which drugs you take and what the dosages are. Most often the side effects include nausea, vomiting, and hair loss. For radiation therapy, fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, and diarrhea may occur. There are many new drugs that have greatly reduced the degree of nausea that used to be experienced because of some of these treatments."
113,How many people are affected by anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immune deficiency ?,"The prevalence of the X-linked recessive type of EDA-ID is estimated to be 1 in 250,000 individuals. Only a few cases of the autosomal dominant form have been described in the scientific literature."
114,Who is at risk for Breast Cancer? ?,"Some women develop breast cancer and others do not, and the risk factors for the disease vary. Breast cancer may affect younger women, but three-fourths of all breast cancers occur in women between the ages of 45 to 85. In Situ and Invasive Breast Cancer Researchers often talk about breast cancer in two ways: in situ and invasive. In situ refers to cancer that has not spread beyond its site of origin. Invasive applies to cancer that has spread to the tissue around it. This chart shows what the approximate chances are of a woman getting invasive breast cancer in her lifetime. Risk Factors Risk factors are conditions or agents that increase a person's chances of getting a disease. Here are the most common risk factors for breast cancer. -   Older age. The risk of breast cancer in a 70 year old woman is about 10 times that of a 30 year old woman, but risk decreases after age 85.  Older age. The risk of breast cancer in a 70 year old woman is about 10 times that of a 30 year old woman, but risk decreases after age 85. - Personal and family history. A personal history of breast cancer or breast cancer among one or more of your close relatives, such as a sister, mother, or daughter. Personal and family history. A personal history of breast cancer or breast cancer among one or more of your close relatives, such as a sister, mother, or daughter. - Estrogen levels in the body. High estrogen levels over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating. Estrogen levels in the body. High estrogen levels over a long time may increase the risk of breast cancer. Estrogen levels are highest during the years a woman is menstruating. - Never being pregnant or having your first child in your mid-30s or later. Never being pregnant or having your first child in your mid-30s or later. - Early menstruation. Having your first menstrual period before age 12. Early menstruation. Having your first menstrual period before age 12. - Breast density. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low or normal breast density.  Breast density. Women with very dense breasts have a higher risk of breast cancer than women with low or normal breast density. -  Combination hormone replacement therapy/Hormone therapy. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy. (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT can increase the risk of breast cancer.  Combination hormone replacement therapy/Hormone therapy. Estrogen, progestin, or both may be given to replace the estrogen no longer made by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women who have had their ovaries removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy. (HRT) or hormone therapy (HT). Combination HRT/HT is estrogen combined with progestin. This type of HRT/HT can increase the risk of breast cancer. - Exposure to radiation. Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer can increase the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast. Exposure to radiation. Radiation therapy to the chest for the treatment of cancer can increase the risk of breast cancer, starting 10 years after treatment. Radiation therapy to treat cancer in one breast does not appear to increase the risk of cancer in the other breast. - Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy.  Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of breast cancer, especially in postmenopausal women who have not used hormone replacement therapy. - Alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises. Alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer. The level of risk rises as the amount of alcohol consumed rises. - Gaining weight after menopause, especially after natural menopause and/or after age 60. Gaining weight after menopause, especially after natural menopause and/or after age 60. - Race. White women are at greater risk than black women. However, black women diagnosed with breast cancer are more likely to die of the disease. Race. White women are at greater risk than black women. However, black women diagnosed with breast cancer are more likely to die of the disease. - Inherited gene changes. Women who have inherited certain changes in the genes named BRCA1 and BRCA2 have a higher risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer and maybe colon cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors. Men who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA2 gene have a higher risk of breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers, and lymphoma. Inherited gene changes. Women who have inherited certain changes in the genes named BRCA1 and BRCA2 have a higher risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer and maybe colon cancer. The risk of breast cancer caused by inherited gene changes depends on the type of gene mutation, family history of cancer, and other factors. Men who have inherited certain changes in the BRCA2 gene have a higher risk of breast, prostate and pancreatic cancers, and lymphoma. Five percent to 10 percent of all breast cancers are thought to be inherited. Get information about the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic mutations and testing for them. Warning Signs When breast cancer first develops, there may be no symptoms at all. But as the cancer grows, it can cause changes that women should watch for. You can help safeguard your health by learning the following warning signs of breast cancer. -  a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm area  - a change in the size or shape of the breast  - a dimple or puckering in the skin of the breast  -  a nipple turned inward into the breast  -  fluid, other than breast milk, from the nipple, especially if it's bloody  - scaly, red, or swollen skin on the breast, nipple, or areola (the dark area of skin around the nipple)  - dimples in the breast that look like the skin of an orange. a lump or thickening in or near the breast or in the underarm area a change in the size or shape of the breast a dimple or puckering in the skin of the breast a nipple turned inward into the breast fluid, other than breast milk, from the nipple, especially if it's bloody scaly, red, or swollen skin on the breast, nipple, or areola (the dark area of skin around the nipple) dimples in the breast that look like the skin of an orange. Don't Ignore Symptoms You should see your doctor about any symptoms like these. Most often, they are not cancer, but it's important to check with the doctor so that any problems can be diagnosed and treated as early as possible. Some women believe that as they age, health problems are due to ""growing older."" Because of this myth, many illnesses go undiagnosed and untreated. Don't ignore your symptoms because you think they are not important or because you believe they are normal for your age. Talk to your doctor."
115,What are the symptoms of Tetrasomy X ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tetrasomy X? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tetrasomy X. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Abnormality of the teeth 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Epicanthus 50% Hypertelorism 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Radioulnar synostosis 50% Strabismus 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Abnormality of immune system physiology 7.5% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Secondary amenorrhea 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
116,What are the symptoms of Intestinal pseudoobstruction neuronal chronic idiopathic X-linked ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Intestinal pseudoobstruction neuronal chronic idiopathic X-linked? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Intestinal pseudoobstruction neuronal chronic idiopathic X-linked. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hydronephrosis 5% Pyloric stenosis 5% Seizures 5% Spastic diplegia 5% Abdominal distention - Abnormal facial shape - Feeding difficulties in infancy - Hypertelorism - Increased mean platelet volume - Infantile onset - Intestinal malrotation - Intestinal pseudo-obstruction - Low-set ears - Patent ductus arteriosus - Smooth philtrum - Thrombocytopenia - Vomiting - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
117,What are the treatments for Niemann-Pick disease ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Niemann-Pick disease:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Acid Sphingomyelinase Deficiency  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Niemann-Pick Disease Type C  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-Pick disease type C1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-Pick disease type C2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-Pick disease, type A  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-Pick disease, type B  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-Pick disease, type C  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-Pick disease, type D  - Genetic Testing Registry: Niemann-pick disease, intermediate, protracted neurovisceral  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sphingomyelin/cholesterol lipidosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Niemann-Pick Disease   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
118,How to diagnose Hypokalemic periodic paralysis ?,"How is hypokalemic periodic paralysis diagnosed? The diagnosis of hypokalemic periodic paralysis is based on a history of episodes of paralysis and low levels of potassium in the blood during attacks (less than 0.9 to 3.0 mmol/L), but not between attacks. An important part of the diagnosis is to rule out other potential causes, including myotonia, hyperthyroidism, and arrhythmia. Affected individuals typically have a family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance. Genetic testing is available for hypokalemic periodic paralysis. Of all individuals meeting diagnostic criteria for this condition, approximately 55 to 70 percent have mutations in the CACNA1S gene, and approximately 8 to 10 percent have mutations in the SCN4A gene. GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that perform clinical genetic testing of the CACNA1S and SCN4A genes for hypokalemic periodic paralysis. When a disease-causing mutation is identified in an affected individual, genetic testing can be performed for at-risk, asymptomatic family members. Please note:  Most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional.  See below for a list of online resources that can assist you in locating a genetics professional near you."
119,What is (are) Medicare and Continuing Care ?,"Medicare Part A is hospital insurance that helps cover inpatient care in hospitals. Part A also helps cover skilled nursing facility care for a limited period of time, hospice care, and home health care, if you meet certain conditions. Most people don't have to pay a monthly premium for Medicare Part A when they turn age 65 because they or a spouse paid Medicare taxes while they were working. If a person is hospitalized, Medicare helps pay for the following services. - Care - general nursing - Room - semiprivate room  - Hospital services - meals, most services and supplies Care - general nursing Room - semiprivate room Hospital services - meals, most services and supplies If a person is hospitalized, Medicare does NOT pay for the following services. - Care - private-duty nursing  - Room - private room (unless medically necessary) - Hospital services - television and telephone Care - private-duty nursing Room - private room (unless medically necessary) Hospital services - television and telephone For important information about Medicare Part A, visit http://www.medicare.gov to view or print copies of ""Your Medicare Benefits"" or ""Medicare & You."" (Under ""Search Tools,"" select ""Find a Medicare Publication."")"
120,What are the symptoms of Carnosinemia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Carnosinemia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Carnosinemia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Developmental regression 90% EEG abnormality 90% Seizures 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Carnosinuria - Generalized myoclonic seizures - Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
121,"How many people are affected by neuropathy, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa ?","The prevalence of NARP is unknown. This disorder is probably less common than a similar but more severe condition, Leigh syndrome, which affects about 1 in 40,000 people."
122,Is spastic paraplegia type 31 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
123,What are the symptoms of Churg Strauss syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Churg Strauss syndrome? The specific signs and symptoms of Churg Strauss syndrome (CSS) vary from person to person depending on the organ systems involved. The severity, duration and age of onset also vary. CSS is considered to have three distinct phases - prodromal (allergic), eosinophilic and vasculitic - which don't always occur sequentially. Some people do not develop all three phases. The prodromal (or allergic) phase is characterized by various allergic reactions. Affected people may develop asthma (including a cough, wheezing, and shortness of breath); hay fever (allergic rhinitis); and/or repeated episodes of sinusitis. This phase can last from months to many years. Most people develop asthma-like symptoms before any other symptoms. The eosinophilic phase is characterized by accumulation of eosinophils (a specific type of white blood cell) in various tissues of the body - especially the lungs, gastrointestinal tract and skin. The vasculitic phase is characterized by widespread inflammation of various blood vessels (vasculitis). Chronic vasculitis can cause narrowing of blood vessels, which can block or slow blood flow to organs. Inflamed blood vessels can also become thin and fragile (potentially rupturing) or develop a bulge (aneurysm). People with CSS often develop nonspecific symptoms including fatigue, fever, weight loss, night sweats, abdominal pain, and/or joint and muscle pain. Neurological symptoms (such as pain, tingling or numbness) are common and depend on the specific nerves involved. About half of affected people develop skin abnormalities due to accumulation of eosinophils in skin tissue. Symptoms of skin involvement may include purplish skin lesions, a rash with hives, and/or small bumps, especially on the elbows. Gastrointestinal involvement may cause various symptoms also. Heart problems may include inflammation of heart tissues and in severe cases, heart failure. The kidneys can also become involved, eventually causing glomerulonephritis. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Churg Strauss syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of eosinophils 90% Asthma 90% Autoimmunity 90% Congestive heart failure 90% Polyneuropathy 90% Pulmonary infiltrates 90% Sinusitis 90% Subcutaneous hemorrhage 90% Urticaria 90% Vasculitis 90% Weight loss 90% Abdominal pain 50% Abnormality of the pericardium 50% Abnormality of the pleura 50% Arthralgia 50% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Gait disturbance 50% Hematuria 50% Hypertension 50% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 50% Hypopigmented skin patches 50% Nausea and vomiting 50% Skin rash 50% Thrombophlebitis 50% Abnormality of temperature regulation 7.5% Abnormality of the endocardium 7.5% Acrocyanosis 7.5% Arthritis 7.5% Cerebral ischemia 7.5% Coronary artery disease 7.5% Cranial nerve paralysis 7.5% Cutis marmorata 7.5% Glomerulopathy 7.5% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 7.5% Hemoptysis 7.5% Intestinal obstruction 7.5% Malabsorption 7.5% Myalgia 7.5% Myositis 7.5% Nasal polyposis 7.5% Proteinuria 7.5% Pulmonary embolism 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
124,Is Joubert syndrome inherited ?,"How is Joubert syndrome inherited? Joubert syndrome is predominantly inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier. In rare cases, when Joubert syndrome is caused by mutations in the OFD1 gene on the X chromosome, it is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. X-linked recessive conditions usually occur in males, who only have one X chromosome (and one Y chromosome). Females have two X chromosomes, so if they have a mutation on one X chromosome, they still have a working copy of the gene on their other X chromosome and are typically unaffected. While females can have an X-linked recessive condition, it is very rare. If a mother is a carrier of an X-linked recessive condition and the father is not, the risk to children depends on each child's sex. Each male child has a 50% chance to be unaffected, and a 50% chance to be affected Each daughter has a 50% chance to be unaffected, and a 50% chance to be an unaffected carrier If a father has the condition and the mother is not a carrier, all sons will be unaffected, and all daughters will be unaffected carriers."
125,What is (are) Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your diabetes under control ?,"The A1C test, also called the hemoglobin A1C test, HbA1C, or glycohemoglobin test, is a blood test that reflects the average level of glucose in your blood during the past 3 months. Your A1C test result is given in percents. Your doctor might use the A1C test to help diagnose your diabetes. Your doctor will draw a sample of your blood in the office or send you to a lab to have a sample of your blood drawn for the test. After being diagnosed with diabetes, you should have the A1C test at least twice a year.
                
Your A1C result plus your record of blood glucose numbers show whether your blood glucose is under control.
                
- If your A1C result is too high, you may need to change your diabetes care plan. Your health care team can help you decide what part of your plan to change. For instance, you might need to change your meal plan, your diabetes medicines, or your physical activity plan.  - If your A1C result is on target, then your diabetes treatment plan is working. The lower your A1C is, the lower your chance of having diabetes problems.
                
This chart shows the A1C goals for different types of people with diabetes.
                
Types of People    A1C Goals          Most people with diabetes    below 7%        Women with diabetes who want to get pregnant or who are pregnant    below 6%
                
A1C goals can also depend on
                
- how long you have had diabetes  - whether or not you have other health problems
                
Ask your doctor what goal is right for you.
                

                
This chart shows how your A1C result may match up to your average blood glucose number.
                
What Your A1C Result Means          My A1C Result    My Average Blood Glucose Number        6%    135        7%    170        8%    205        9%    240        10%    275        11%    310        12%    345"
126,What are the symptoms of Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Nonepidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
127,What is (are) Problems with Taste ?,You can help your doctor make a diagnosis by writing down important information about your problem beforehand and giving the information to your doctor during your visit. Write down answers to the following questions. - When did I first become aware of my taste problem?   - What changes in my sense of taste did I notice?  -  Do all foods and drinks taste the same?   - Have there been any changes in my sense of smell?   - Does the change in taste affect my ability to eat normally?   - What medicines do I take? What are the names of the medicines? How much do I take? What is the health condition for which I take the medicine?   - Have I recently had a cold or the flu?  When did I first become aware of my taste problem? What changes in my sense of taste did I notice? Do all foods and drinks taste the same? Have there been any changes in my sense of smell? Does the change in taste affect my ability to eat normally? What medicines do I take? What are the names of the medicines? How much do I take? What is the health condition for which I take the medicine? Have I recently had a cold or the flu?
128,What are the symptoms of Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia ?,"Signs and symptoms of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia include fever, weight loss, and feeling very tired. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by JMML or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         -  Fever for no known reason.    - Having infections, such as bronchitis or tonsillitis.    - Feeling very tired.    - Easy bruising or bleeding.    - Skin rash.    - Painless swelling of the lymph nodes in the neck, underarm, stomach, or groin.    - Pain or a feeling of fullness below the ribs."
129,Is Von Willebrand disease inherited ?,"Is von Willebrand disease always inherited from a parent? Most, but not all, cases of von Willebrand disease (VWD) are inherited. The majority of cases of type 1 and type 2A, as well as type 2B and type 2M, are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. VWD type 2N, type 3, and some cases of type 1 and type 2A are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Most individuals with an autosomal dominant type of VWD have an affected parent. However, some individuals are affected due to having a new (de novo) mutation in the VWF gene that occurred for the first time in the affected individual. If the mutation found in the affected individual cannot be detected in either parent, it is most often due to a de novo mutation but may also be due to germline mosaicism in a parent. Possible non-medical explanations which may be explored include alternate paternity or maternity (e.g., with assisted reproduction) or undisclosed adoption. There is also a separate, rare condition called acquired von Willebrand syndrome (AVWS). This is a mild to moderate bleeding disorder that is typically seen in conjunction with other disorders, such as diseases that affect bone marrow or immune cell function. AVWS is not caused by a mutation in the VWF gene and usually begins in adulthood."
130,What is (are) Zika virus infection ?,"Zika virus infection is spread to people primarily through the bite of an infected mosquito. Zika virus can also be spread from a pregnant mother to her child and through sexual contact with an affected male partner. Cases of Zika virus transmission via blood transfusions have also been reported. Zika virus outbreaks are currently occurring in many countries. Within the continental United States, Zika virus infections have mostly been in returning travelers. The illness associated with Zika virus infection is usually mild, with symptoms lasting for several days to a week. The most common symptoms of Zika are fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis (red eyes). However, recent research has suggested a link between Zika virus infection and Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS). In addition, prenatal Zika virus infection has been shown to cause adverse pregnancy outcomes, including microcephaly and other serious brain anomalies. The precise risk of an adverse pregnancy outcome for a woman infected with Zika virus during pregnancy and the full spectrum of associated birth defects has not yet been determined. No vaccine currently exists to prevent Zika virus infection, but there are still ways to protect oneself. The CDC recommends that pregnant women consider postponing travel to Zika-affected areas. People living in or traveling to areas where Zika virus is found should take steps to prevent mosquito bites. Men who live in or who have traveled to Zika-affected areas can also take steps to prevent sexual transmission of the Zika virus."
131,What is (are) Pituitary Tumors ?,"The pituitary is a small, bean-sized gland that is below the hypothalamus, a structure at the base of the brain, by a thread-like stalk that contains both blood vessels and nerves. It controls a system of hormones in the body that regulate growth, metabolism, the stress response, and functions of the sex organs via the thyroid gland, adrenal gland, ovaries, and testes. A pituitary tumor is an abnormal growth of cells within the pituitary gland. Most pituitary tumors are benign, which means they are non-cancerous, grow slowly and do not spread to other parts of the body; however they can make the pituitary gland produce either too many or too few hormones, which can cause problems in the body. Tumors that make hormones are called functioning tumors, and they can cause a wide array of symptoms depending upon the hormone affected. Tumors that dont make hormones are called non-functioning tumors. Their symptoms are directly related to their growth in size and include headaches, vision problems, nausea, and vomiting. Diseases related to hormone abnormalities include Cushings disease, in which fat builds up in the face, back and chest, and the arms and legs become very thin; and acromegaly, a condition in which the hands, feet, and face are larger than normal. Pituitary hormones that impact the sex hormones, such as estrogen and testosterone, can make a woman produce breast milk even though she is not pregnant or nursing, or cause a man to lose his sex drive or lower his sperm count. Pituitary tumors often go undiagnosed because their symptoms resemble those of so many other more common diseases."
132,What are the symptoms of Lemierre syndrome ?,"What are the symptoms reported in children who have Lemierre syndrome? In children and adolescents, Lemierre syndrome usually begins with a severe sore throat, persistent fever, and possibly chills. Some cases begin with acute otitis media. As the syndrome progresses, there is neck pain and tender swelling along the internal jugular vein.[ If undiagnosed, the next stage is the ""metastasis"" of septic emboli to the lungs, abdominal organs, brain or heart. Lung involvement typically results in a productive cough (a cough that brings up mucus or phlegm) and chest pain. Girls may report abdominal pain and have enlargement of the liver (hepatomegaly) and jaundice, all of which indicate involvement of the liver."
133,What are the treatments for Vernal keratoconjunctivitis ?,"How might vernal keratoconjunctivitis be treated? Management of vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC) focuses on preventing allergic attacks as well as relieving the signs and symptoms of the condition. It is often recommended that affected individuals try to avoid the agent that causes the allergy (if possible); wear dark sunglasses in the daytime; avoid dust; and stay inside on hot afternoons. Eye drops that affect the amount of histamine released by immune system cells (called mast cell stabilizers) may be used at the beginning of the season or at the first sign of a ""flare-up"" to prevent severe symptoms; however, they are not considered effective at relieving symptoms. Topical eye drops are generally preferred as the first source of treatment. Cold compresses, artificial tears, ointments and/or topical antihistamines may help. Non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may relieve symptoms in moderate cases; topical steroids are typically only used for more severe cases because long-term use can cause glaucoma. A few prescription drugs may also be available for the treatment of VKC; these include cromolyn sodium, lodoxamide tromethamine and Levocabastine. Oral administration of montelukast, a drug usually prescribed for asthma, has also been shown to be an effective treatment of VKC. For more information about these drugs and their availability, individuals should speak with their health care providers."
134,What are the genetic changes related to mucolipidosis III gamma ?,"Mutations in the GNPTG gene cause mucolipidosis III gamma. This gene provides instructions for making one part (subunit) of an enzyme called GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase. This enzyme helps prepare certain newly made enzymes for transport to lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments within the cell that use digestive enzymes to break down large molecules into smaller ones that can be reused by cells. GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase is involved in the process of attaching a molecule called mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) to specific digestive enzymes. Just as luggage is tagged at the airport to direct it to the correct destination, enzymes are often ""tagged"" after they are made so they get to where they are needed in the cell. M6P acts as a tag that indicates a digestive enzyme should be transported to the lysosome.  Mutations in the GNPTG gene that cause mucolipidosis III gamma result in reduced activity of GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase. These mutations disrupt the tagging of digestive enzymes with M6P, which prevents many enzymes from reaching the lysosomes. Digestive enzymes that do not receive the M6P tag end up outside the cell, where they have increased activity. The shortage of digestive enzymes within lysosomes causes large molecules to accumulate there. Conditions that cause molecules to build up inside lysosomes, including mucolipidosis III gamma, are called lysosomal storage disorders. The signs and symptoms of mucolipidosis III gamma are most likely due to the shortage of digestive enzymes inside lysosomes and the effects these enzymes have outside the cell."
135,What is (are) Pinworms ?,"Pinworms are small parasites that can live in the colon and rectum. You get them when you swallow their eggs. The eggs hatch inside your intestines. While you sleep, the female pinworms leave the intestines through the anus and lay eggs on nearby skin.    Pinworms spread easily. When people who are infected touch their anus, the eggs attach to their fingertips. They can spread the eggs to others directly through their hands, or through contaminated clothing, bedding, food, or other articles. The eggs can live on household surfaces for up to 2 weeks.    The infection is more common in children. Many people have no symptoms at all. Some people feel itching around the anus or vagina. The itching may become intense, interfere with sleep, and make you irritable.    Your health care provider can diagnose pinworm infection by finding the eggs. A common way to collect the eggs is with a sticky piece of clear tape. Mild infections may not need treatment. If you do need medicine, everyone in the household should take it.     To prevent becoming infected or reinfected with pinworms,       - Bathe after waking up    - Wash your pajamas and bed sheets often    - Wash your hands regularly, especially after using the bathroom or changing diapers    - Change your underwear every day    - Avoid nail biting    - Avoid scratching the anal area       NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
136,What are the treatments for proopiomelanocortin deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of proopiomelanocortin deficiency:  - Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development: How are Obesity and Overweight Diagnosed?  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Proopiomelanocortin Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Proopiomelanocortin deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: ACTH  - National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: How Are Overweight and Obesity Treated?  - National Institutes of Health Clinical Center: Managing Adrenal Insufficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
137,What is (are) Paroxysmal Hemicrania ?,"Paroxysmal hemicrania is a rare form of headache that usually begins in adulthood. Patients experience severe throbbing, claw-like, or boring pain usually on one side of the face; in, around, or behind the eye; and occasionally reaching to the back of the neck. This pain may be accompanied by red and tearing eyes, a drooping or swollen eyelid on the affected side of the face, and nasal congestion. Patients may also feel dull pain, soreness, or tenderness between attacks. Attacks of paroxysmal hemicrania typically occur from 5 to 40 times per day and last 2 to 30 minutes. The disorder has two forms: chronic, in which patients experience attacks on a daily basis for a year or more, and episodic, in which the headaches may remit for months or years. Certain movements of the head or neck or external pressure to the neck may trigger these headaches in some patients. The disorder is more common in women than in men."
138,How to diagnose Reticulohistiocytoma ?,"How is reticulohistiocytoma diagnosed? The diagnosis of reticulohistiocytoma (RH) is made based on clinical presentation, histology, and immunohistochemistry profile. RH occur in isolation and are typically described as small, yellow to reddish-born nodules. The lesions usually are slightly elevated from the surrounding skin. Detailed information on histology of reticulohistiocytoma is available through DermNet NZ, an online resource about skin diseases developed by the New Zealand Dermatological Society Incorporated. There are several differential diagnoses for RH. It is important to distinguish RH from Rosai-Dorfman disease, juvenile xanthogranuloma, a variety of granulomatous conditions, and some malignant neoplasms, including histiocytic sarcoma, melanoma, and epithelioid sarcoma. Reticulohistiocytoma should also be distinguished from multicentric reticulohistiocytosis."
139,What to do for Lactose Intolerance ?,"People may find it helpful to talk with a health care provider or a registered dietitian about a dietary plan. A dietary plan can help people manage the symptoms of lactose intolerance and make sure they get enough nutrients. Parents, caretakers, childcare providers, and others who serve food to children with lactose intolerance should follow the dietary plan recommended by the childs health care provider or registered dietitian.
                
Milk and milk products. Gradually introducing small amounts of milk or milk products may help some people adapt to them with fewer symptoms. Often, people can better tolerate milk or milk products by having them with meals, such as having milk with cereal or having cheese with crackers. People with lactose intolerance are generally more likely to tolerate hard cheeses, such as cheddar or Swiss, than a glass of milk. A 1.5ounce serving of low-fat hard cheese has less than 1 gram of lactose, while a 1-cup serving of low-fat milk has about 11 to 13 grams of lactose.2
                
However, people with lactose intolerance are also more likely to tolerate yogurt than milk, even though yogurt and milk have similar amounts of lactose.2
                
Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products. Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products are available at most supermarkets and are identical nutritionally to regular milk and milk products. Manufacturers treat lactose-free milk with the lactase enzyme. This enzyme breaks down the lactose in the milk. Lactose-free milk remains fresh for about the same length of time or, if it is ultra-pasteurized, longer than regular milk. Lactose-free milk may have a slightly sweeter taste than regular milk.
                
Lactase products. People can use lactase tablets and drops when they eat or drink milk products. The lactase enzyme digests the lactose in the food and therefore reduces the chances of developing digestive symptoms. People should check with a health care provider before using these products because some groups, such as young children and pregnant and breastfeeding women, may not be able to use them."
140,What are the symptoms of Hereditary lymphedema type II ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hereditary lymphedema type II? Hereditary lymphedema type II is characterized by the abnormal transport of lymph fluid. This causes the lymph fluid to build up, causing swelling (lymphedema). Individuals with hereditary lymphedema type II usually develop swelling in the lower legs and feet during puberty. Some affected individuals develop a non-contagious skin infection called cellulitis, which can further damage the lymphatic vessels (the thin tubes that carry lymph fluid).    The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hereditary lymphedema type II. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cleft palate 7.5% Yellow nails 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hypoplasia of lymphatic vessels - Predominantly lower limb lymphedema - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
141,What is the outlook for Brain and Spinal Tumors ?,"Symptoms of brain and spinal cord tumors generally develop slowly and worsen over time unless they are treated. The tumor may be classified as benign or malignant and given a numbered score that reflects its rate of malignancy. This score can help doctors determine how to treat the tumor and predict the likely outcome, or prognosis, for the individual."
142,What causes Tietze syndrome ?,What causes Tietze syndrome? The exact underlying cause of Tietze syndrome is currently unknown. Some researchers have speculated that small injuries to the anterior chest wall may contribute to the development of the condition.
143,Who is at risk for Oropharyngeal Cancer? ?,"Smoking or being infected with human papillomavirus can increase the risk of oropharyngeal cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.   The most common risk factors for oropharyngeal cancer include the following:         - A history of smoking cigarettes for more than 10 pack years and other tobacco use.    - Personal history of head and neck cancer.    - Heavy alcohol use.    - Being infected with human papillomavirus (HPV), especially HPV type 16. The number of cases of oropharyngeal cancers linked to HPV infection is increasing.    - Chewing betel quid, a stimulant commonly used in parts of Asia."
144,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Klver-Bucy Syndrome ?,NINDS supports and conducts research on neurobehavioral disorders such as Klver-Bucy syndrome. Much of the research focuses on learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent and treat them.
145,What are the symptoms of Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency? Infants with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency typically appear normal and healthy at birth. Neurological signs and symptoms usually become apparent over time, and can range from mild to severe. These may include abnormal muscle tone; poor sucking and coordination; seizures; and delayed motor development. Other manifestations may include decreased spontaneous movements and difficulty swallowing. Without early and appropriate treatment, signs and symptoms progress and affected individuals may experience irreversible intellectual disability, behavioral problems, an inability to control body temperature, and even death in severe cases. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Microcephaly 90% Abnormality of eye movement - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bradykinesia - Cerebral calcification - Choreoathetosis - Dysphagia - Dystonia - Episodic fever - Excessive salivation - Hyperkinesis - Hyperphenylalaninemia - Hyperreflexia - Hypertonia - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Intellectual disability, progressive - Irritability - Lethargy - Limb hypertonia - Motor delay - Muscular hypotonia - Muscular hypotonia of the trunk - Myoclonus - Parkinsonism - Poor suck - Progressive neurologic deterioration - Rigidity - Seizures - Severe muscular hypotonia - Small for gestational age - Somnolence - Transient hyperphenylalaninemia - Tremor - Variable expressivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
146,What is (are) Primary angiitis of the central nervous system ?,"Primary angiitis of the central nervous system is a rare form of vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels) affecting the blood vessels that nourish the brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerves. This condition can lead to narrowing and blockage of the blood vessels of the central nervous system which can eventually cause aneurysms, ischemia and/or hemmorrhage. The cause of this condition is unknown. Signs and symptoms of this condition may begin suddenly or develop over time. Some of the symptoms may incude headaches that do not go away, fever, rapid weight loss, confusion or forgetfulness, and general malaise. Treatment for this condition involves a course of immunosuppresive steroids."
147,What are the treatments for La Crosse encephalitis ?,"How might La Crosse (LAC) encephalitis be treated? There is no specific treatment for LAC encephalitis. Severe cases are treated with supportive therapy which may include hospitalization, respiratory support, IV fluids and prevention of other infections.[9633]"
148,Is succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
149,What are the genetic changes related to microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II ?,"Mutations in the PCNT gene cause MOPDII. The PCNT gene provides instructions for making a protein called pericentrin. Within cells, this protein is located in structures called centrosomes. Centrosomes play a role in cell division and the assembly of microtubules. Microtubules are fibers that help cells maintain their shape, assist in the process of cell division, and are essential for the transport of materials within cells. Pericentrin acts as an anchoring protein, securing other proteins to the centrosome. Through its interactions with these proteins, pericentrin plays a role in regulation of the cell cycle, which is the cell's way of replicating itself in an organized, step-by-step fashion.  PCNT gene mutations lead to the production of a nonfunctional pericentrin protein that cannot anchor other proteins to the centrosome. As a result, centrosomes cannot properly assemble microtubules, leading to disruption of the cell cycle and cell division. Impaired cell division causes a reduction in cell production, while disruption of the cell cycle can lead to cell death. This overall reduction in the number of cells leads to short bones, microcephaly, and the other signs and symptoms of MOPDII."
150,Is Adiposis dolorosa inherited ?,"Is adiposis dolorosa inherited? Most cases of adiposis dolorosa are sporadic (not inherited). This means that it usually occurs in people with no family history of the condition. Adiposis dolorosa has rarely been reported to occur in more than one family member. In some of these cases, it appears to have been inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. In these cases, when an affected person has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the gene causing the condition. However, no associated genes have been identified."
151,What is (are) WAGR syndrome ?,"WAGR syndrome is a disorder that affects many body systems and is named for its main features: Wilms tumor, anirida, genitourinary anomalies, and intellectual disability (formerly referred to as mental retardation).  People with WAGR syndrome have a 45 to 60 percent chance of developing Wilms tumor, a rare form of kidney cancer. This type of cancer is most often diagnosed in children but is sometimes seen in adults.  Most people with WAGR syndrome have aniridia, an absence of the colored part of the eye (the iris). This can cause reduction in the sharpness of vision (visual acuity) and increased sensitivity to light (photophobia). Aniridia is typically the first noticeable sign of WAGR syndrome. Other eye problems may also develop, such as clouding of the lens of the eyes (cataracts), increased pressure in the eyes (glaucoma), and involuntary eye movements (nystagmus).  Abnormalities of the genitalia and urinary tract (genitourinary anomalies) are seen more frequently in males with WAGR syndrome than in affected females. The most common genitourinary anomaly in affected males is undescended testes (cryptorchidism). Females may not have functional ovaries and instead have undeveloped clumps of tissue called streak gonads. Females may also have a heart-shaped (bicornate) uterus, which makes it difficult to carry a pregnancy to term.  Another common feature of WAGR syndrome is intellectual disability. Affected individuals often have difficulty processing, learning, and properly responding to information. Some individuals with WAGR syndrome also have psychiatric or behavioral problems including depression, anxiety, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), or a developmental disorder called autism that affects communication and social interaction.  Other signs and symptoms of WAGR syndrome can include childhood-onset obesity, inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis), and kidney failure. When WAGR syndrome includes childhood-onset obesity, it is often referred to as WAGRO syndrome."
152,What are the treatments for corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency:  - American Heart Association: Understanding Blood Pressure Readings  - Genetic Testing Registry: Corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
153,What are the symptoms of Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia ?,"Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) mainly affects the sinuses, ears, and lungs. One sign that you might have PCD is if you have chronic (ongoing) infections in one or more of these areas. Common signs, symptoms, and complications linked to PCD include the following:
                
Sinuses:   - Chronic nasal congestion   - Runny nose with mucus and pus discharge   - Chronic sinus infections
                
Chronic nasal congestion
                
Runny nose with mucus and pus discharge
                
Chronic sinus infections
                
Ears:   - Chronic middle ear infections   - Hearing loss
                
Chronic middle ear infections
                
Hearing loss
                
Lungs:   - Respiratory distress (breathing problems) in newborns   - Chronic cough   - Recurrent pneumonia   - Collapse of part or all of a lung
                
Respiratory distress (breathing problems) in newborns
                
Chronic cough
                
Recurrent pneumonia
                
Collapse of part or all of a lung
                
PCD also can cause fertility problems in men and women. ""Fertility"" refers to the ability to have children. In men, PCD can affect cilia-like structures that help sperm cells move. Because the sperm cells don't move well, men who have the disease usually are unable to father children.
                
Fertility problems also occur in some women who have PCD. These problems likely are due to faulty cilia in the fallopian tubes. (The fallopian tubes carry eggs from the ovaries to the uterus.)
                
About half of all people who have PCD have Kartagener's syndrome. This syndrome involves three disorders: chronic sinusitis (si-nu-SI-tis), bronchiectasis (brong-ke-EK-tah-sis), and situs inversus.
                
Chronic sinusitis is a condition in which the sinuses are infected or inflamed. The sinuses are hollow air spaces around the nasal passages.
                
Bronchiectasis is a condition in which damage to the airways causes them to widen and become flabby and scarred.
                
Situs inversus is a condition in which the internal organs (for example, the heart, stomach, spleen, liver, and gallbladder) are in opposite positions from where they normally are.
                
Situs inversus can occur without PCD. In fact, only 25 percent of people who have the condition also have PCD. By itself, situs inversus may not affect your health. However, in PCD, it's a sign of Kartagener's syndrome.
                
Some people who have PCD have abnormally placed organs and congenital heart defects.
                
When Do Symptoms Occur?
                
The symptoms and severity of PCD vary from person to person. If you or your child has the disease, you may have serious sinus, ear, and/or lung infections. If the disease is mild, it may not show up until the teen or adult years.
                
The symptoms and severity of PCD also vary over time. Sometimes, you may have few symptoms. Other times, your symptoms may become more severe.
                
Some people who have PCD have breathing problems when they're born and need extra oxygen for several days. Afterward, airway infections are common.
                
Diagnosing PCD in children can be hard. This is because some PCD symptomssuch as ear infections, chronic cough, and runny noseare common in children, even if they don't have PCD. Also, the disease may be confused with another condition, such as cystic fibrosis.
                
A correct and early diagnosis of PCD is very important. It will allow you or your child to get the proper treatment to keep your airways and lungs as healthy as possible. An early diagnosis and proper treatment also can prevent or delay ongoing and long-term lung damage."
154,What is (are) early-onset glaucoma ?,"Glaucoma is a group of eye disorders in which the optic nerves connecting the eyes and the brain are progressively damaged. This damage can lead to reduction in side (peripheral) vision and eventual blindness. Other signs and symptoms may include bulging eyes, excessive tearing, and abnormal sensitivity to light (photophobia). The term ""early-onset glaucoma"" may be used when the disorder appears before the age of 40.  In most people with glaucoma, the damage to the optic nerves is caused by increased pressure within the eyes (intraocular pressure). Intraocular pressure depends on a balance between fluid entering and leaving the eyes.  Usually glaucoma develops in older adults, in whom the risk of developing the disorder may be affected by a variety of medical conditions including high blood pressure (hypertension) and diabetes mellitus, as well as family history. The risk of early-onset glaucoma depends mainly on heredity.  Structural abnormalities that impede fluid drainage in the eye may be present at birth and usually become apparent during the first year of life. Such abnormalities may be part of a genetic disorder that affects many body systems, called a syndrome. If glaucoma appears before the age of 5 without other associated abnormalities, it is called primary congenital glaucoma.  Other individuals experience early onset of primary open-angle glaucoma, the most common adult form of glaucoma. If primary open-angle glaucoma develops during childhood or early adulthood, it is called juvenile open-angle glaucoma."
155,What is (are) Hypoglycemia ?,"Hypoglycemia means low blood glucose, or blood sugar. Your body needs glucose to have enough energy. After you eat, your blood absorbs glucose. If you eat more sugar than your body needs, your muscles, and liver store the extra. When your blood sugar begins to fall, a hormone tells your liver to release glucose.    In most people, this raises blood sugar. If it doesn't, you have hypoglycemia, and your blood sugar can be dangerously low. Signs include        - Hunger    - Shakiness    - Dizziness    - Confusion    - Difficulty speaking    - Feeling anxious or weak       In people with diabetes, hypoglycemia is often a side effect of diabetes medicines. Eating or drinking something with carbohydrates can help. If it happens often, your health care provider may need to change your treatment plan.    You can also have low blood sugar without having diabetes. Causes include certain medicines or diseases, hormone or enzyme deficiencies, and tumors. Laboratory tests can help find the cause. The kind of treatment depends on why you have low blood sugar.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
156,What are the treatments for Brittle diabetes ?,"How might brittle diabetes be treated? The approach to management depends upon the underlying cause. General management strategies include diabetes education, frequent self-monitoring of blood glucose, the use of a continuous subcutaneous insulin pump in conjunction with a continuous glucose monitoring device, and, in rare cases, pancreas transplantation. Psychotherapy or working with a psychiatrist or psychologist is recommended for many people with brittle diabetes. Referral to a specialty center may be warranted in certain situations."
157,What is (are) High Blood Cholesterol ?,"TLC stands for Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes. It is a set of lifestyle changes that can help you lower your LDL cholesterol. TLC has three main parts: a cholesterol-lowering diet, weight management, and physical activity. The TLC Diet recommends - reducing the amount of saturated fat, trans fat, and cholesterol you eat.  - eating only enough calories to achieve or maintain a healthy weight.  - increasing the soluble fiber in your diet by eating foods such as oatmeal, kidney beans, and apples.  - adding cholesterol-lowering foods, such as juices or margarines that contain plant sterols or stanols that lower cholesterol. reducing the amount of saturated fat, trans fat, and cholesterol you eat. eating only enough calories to achieve or maintain a healthy weight. increasing the soluble fiber in your diet by eating foods such as oatmeal, kidney beans, and apples. adding cholesterol-lowering foods, such as juices or margarines that contain plant sterols or stanols that lower cholesterol. Weight management is an important part of TLC. Losing weight if you are overweight can help lower LDL cholesterol. Weight management is especially important for people who have a group of risk factors that includes high triglyceride and/or low HDL levels, being overweight, and having too large a waist. Too large a waist is defined as a waist measurement of 40 inches or more for men and 35 inches or more for women. Physical activity is another important part of TLC. Regular physical activity is recommended for everyone. It can help raise HDL levels and lower LDL levels. It is especially important for people with high triglyceride and/or low HDL levels who are overweight and/or have a large waist measurement."
158,Is dystonia 6 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell can be sufficient to cause the disorder. Some people who inherit the altered gene never develop the condition, a situation known as reduced penetrance."
159,What is (are) Primary Familial Brain Calcification ?,"Primary familial brain calcification (PFBC) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by calcium deposits in the basal ganglia, a part of the brain that helps start and control movement. The first symptoms often include clumsiness, fatigue, unsteady walking (gait), slow or slurred speech, difficulty swallowing (dysphagia) and dementia. Migraines and seizures frequently occur. Symptoms typically start in an individual's 30's to 40's but may begin at any age.The neuropsychiatric symptoms and movement disorders worsen over time. Mutations in the SLC20A2, PDGFRB, and PDGFB genes have been found to cause PFBC. This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner."
160,What are the treatments for Aicardi Syndrome ?,There is no cure for Aicardi syndrome nor is there a standard course of treatment. Treatment generally involves medical management of seizures and programs to help parents and children cope with developmental delays. Long-term management by a pediatric neurologist with expertise in the management of infantile spasms is recommended.
161,What is (are) cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis ?,"Cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis is a fat (lipid) storage disorder that affects many areas of the body. People with this disorder cannot break down certain lipids effectively, specifically different forms of cholesterol, so these fats accumulate in various areas of the body. Xanthomatosis refers to the formation of fatty yellow nodules (xanthomas). Cerebrotendinous refers to the typical locations of the xanthomas (cerebro- meaning the brain and -tendinous meaning connective tissue called tendons that attach muscle to bone).  Other features of cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis include chronic diarrhea during infancy, clouding of the lens of the eye (cataracts) developing in late childhood, progressively brittle bones that are prone to fracture, and neurological problems in adulthood, such as dementia, seizures, hallucinations, depression, and difficulty with coordinating movements (ataxia) and speech (dysarthria). The neurological symptoms are thought to be caused by an accumulation of fats and an increasing number of xanthomas in the brain. Xanthomas can also accumulate in the fatty substance that insulates and protects nerves (myelin), disrupting nerve signaling in the brain. Disorders that involve the destruction of myelin are known as leukodystrophies. Degeneration (atrophy) of brain tissue caused by excess lipid deposits also contributes to the neurological problems.  Xanthomas in the tendons (most commonly in the Achilles tendon, which connects the heel of the foot to the calf muscles) begin to form in early adulthood. Tendon xanthomas may cause discomfort and interfere with tendon flexibility. People with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis are also at an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease. If untreated, the signs and symptoms related to the accumulation of lipids throughout the body worsen over time; however, the course of this condition varies greatly among those who are affected."
162,What are the genetic changes related to primary myelofibrosis ?,"Mutations in the JAK2, MPL, CALR, and TET2 genes are associated with most cases of primary myelofibrosis. The JAK2 and MPL genes provide instructions for making proteins that promote the growth and division (proliferation) of blood cells. The CALR gene provides instructions for making a protein with multiple functions, including ensuring the proper folding of newly formed proteins and maintaining the correct levels of stored calcium in cells. The TET2 gene provides instructions for making a protein whose function is unknown.  The proteins produced from the JAK2 and MPL genes are both part of a signaling pathway called the JAK/STAT pathway, which transmits chemical signals from outside the cell to the cell's nucleus. The protein produced from the MPL gene, called thrombopoietin receptor, turns on (activates) the pathway, and the JAK2 protein transmits signals after activation. Through the JAK/STAT pathway, these two proteins promote the proliferation of blood cells, particularly a type of blood cell known as a megakaryocyte.  Mutations in either the JAK2 gene or the MPL gene that are associated with primary myelofibrosis lead to overactivation of the JAK/STAT pathway. The abnormal activation of JAK/STAT signaling leads to overproduction of abnormal megakaryocytes, and these megakaryocytes stimulate another type of cell to release collagen. Collagen is a protein that normally provides structural support for the cells in the bone marrow. However, in primary myelofibrosis, the excess collagen forms scar tissue in the bone marrow.  Although mutations in the CALR gene and the TET2 gene are relatively common in primary myelofibrosis, it is unclear how these mutations are involved in the development of the condition.  Some people with primary myelofibrosis do not have a mutation in any of the known genes associated with this condition. Researchers are working to identify other genes that may be involved in the condition."
163,What is (are) sialuria ?,"Sialuria is a rare disorder that has variable effects on development. Affected infants are often born with a yellow tint to the skin and the whites of the eyes (neonatal jaundice), an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), and unusually small red blood cells (microcytic anemia). They may develop a somewhat flat face and distinctive-looking facial features that are described as ""coarse."" Temporarily delayed development and weak muscle tone (hypotonia) have also been reported.  Young children with sialuria tend to have frequent upper respiratory infections and episodes of dehydration and stomach upset (gastroenteritis). Older children may have seizures and learning difficulties. In some affected children, intellectual development is nearly normal.  The features of sialuria vary widely among affected people. Many of the problems associated with this disorder appear to improve with age, although little is known about the long-term effects of the disease. It is likely that some adults with sialuria never come to medical attention because they have very mild signs and symptoms or no health problems related to the condition."
164,What is (are) Mitochondrial complex IV deficiency ?,"Cytochrome C oxidase deficiency (COX deficiency) is a condition that can affect several parts of the body including the skeletal muscles, heart, brain and liver. The range and severity of signs and symptoms can vary widely among affected individuals (even within the same family) and depend on the form of the condition present. Features in mildly affected individuals may include muscle weakness and hypotonia; in more severely affected individuals, brain dysfunction; heart problems; an enlarged liver; lactic acidosis; and/or a specific group of features known as Leigh syndrome may also be present. COX deficiency is caused by mutations in any of at least 14 genes; the inheritance pattern depends on the gene involved. The condition is frequently fatal in childhood, but mildly affected individuals may survive into adolescence or adulthood."
165,What are the symptoms of Spastic paraplegia 18 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spastic paraplegia 18? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spastic paraplegia 18. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 5% Intellectual disability 5% Seizures 5% Absent speech - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Gait disturbance - High palate - Hyperreflexia - Kyphosis - Lower limb muscle weakness - Pes cavus - Progressive - Scoliosis - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Slow progression - Spastic paraplegia - Strabismus - Upper limb spasticity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
166,What are the genetic changes related to Lujan syndrome ?,"Lujan syndrome is caused by at least one mutation in the MED12 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that helps regulate gene activity; it is involved in many aspects of early development. The MED12 gene mutation that causes Lujan syndrome changes a single protein building block (amino acid) in the MED12 protein. This genetic change alters the structure, and presumably the function, of the MED12 protein. However, it is unclear how the mutation affects development and leads to the cognitive and physical features of Lujan syndrome."
167,What is the outlook for Canavan Disease ?,"The prognosis for Canavan disease is poor. Death usually occurs before age 10, although some children may survive into their teens and twenties."
168,What causes Pyruvate kinase deficiency ?,"What causes pyruvate kinase deficiency? In most cases, pyruvate kinase deficiency is caused by mutations in the PKLR gene. More than 100 different mutation in the PKLR gene have been detected. Medical conditions, such as acute leukemia, preleukemia, and refractory sideroblastic anemia, as well as complications from chemotherapy, can cause an acquired pyruvate kinase deficiency. This type is more common and milder than the hereditary type."
169,What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 4 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Areflexia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Babinski sign - Cerebellar atrophy - Distal sensory impairment - Dysarthria - Hyporeflexia - Impaired smooth pursuit - Limb dysmetria - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Sensory neuropathy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
170,What are the symptoms of Thymoma and Thymic Carcinoma ?,"Signs and symptoms of thymoma and thymic carcinoma include a cough and chest pain. Thymoma and thymic carcinoma may not cause early signs or symptoms. The cancer may be found during a routine chest x-ray. Signs and symptoms may be caused by thymoma, thymic carcinoma, or other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - A cough that doesn't go away.    - Chest pain.    - Trouble breathing."
171,What are the symptoms of Infantile myofibromatosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Infantile myofibromatosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Infantile myofibromatosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the musculature 90% Bone cyst 90% Neoplasm of the skeletal system 90% Sarcoma 90% Abnormality of the skull 50% Abnormality of the thorax 50% Chondrocalcinosis 50% Gingival overgrowth 50% Neoplasm of the lung 50% Abnormality of the eye 7.5% Abnormality of the kidney 7.5% Abnormality of the sacrum 7.5% Benign neoplasm of the central nervous system 7.5% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 7.5% Hypercalcemia 7.5% Intestinal obstruction 7.5% Irregular hyperpigmentation 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Neoplasm of the pancreas 7.5% Osteolysis 7.5% Skin ulcer 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Abnormality of connective tissue - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Fibroma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
172,Do you have information about Electromagnetic Fields,"Summary : Electric and magnetic fields (EMFs) are areas of energy that surround electrical devices. Everyday sources of EMFs include       - Power lines    - Electrical wiring    - Microwave ovens    - Computers    - Cell phones       Some people worry about EMF exposure and cancer. Some studies have found a link between EMF exposure and a higher risk of childhood leukemia, but other studies have not. Other studies have not found proof that EMF exposure causes other childhood cancers. Studies in adults did not prove that EMF exposure causes cancer.    Some people worry that wireless and cellular phones cause cancer. They give off radio-frequency energy (RF), a form of electromagnetic radiation. Scientists need to do more research on this before they can say for sure.    NIH: National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences"
173,What are the symptoms of Duchenne muscular dystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Duchenne muscular dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arrhythmia - Calf muscle pseudohypertrophy - Childhood onset - Congestive heart failure - Dilated cardiomyopathy - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Flexion contracture - Gowers sign - Hyperlordosis - Hyporeflexia - Hypoventilation - Intellectual disability, mild - Muscular dystrophy - Muscular hypotonia - Respiratory failure - Scoliosis - Waddling gait - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
174,What is (are) Noonan syndrome 2 ?,"Noonan syndrome is a genetic disorder that causes abnormal development of multiple parts of the body. Features of Noonan syndrome may include a distinctive facial appearance, short stature, a broad or webbed neck, congenital heart defects, bleeding problems, skeletal malformations, and developmental delay. Noonan syndrome may be caused by mutations in any one of several genes including the PTPN11, KRAS, RAF1, SOS1, NRAS and BRAF genes. It is sometimes referred to as a specific subtype based on the responsible gene in an affected person. Noonan syndrome is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant manner but many cases are due to a new mutation and are not inherited from an affected parent."
175,What are the treatments for Melanoma ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with melanoma.     - Five types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery      - Chemotherapy      - Radiation therapy      - Immunotherapy     - Targeted therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.     - Treatment for melanoma may cause side effects.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with melanoma.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with melanoma. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Five types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery      Surgery to remove the tumor is the primary treatment of all stages of melanoma. A wide local excision is used to remove the melanoma and some of the normal tissue around it. Skin grafting (taking skin from another part of the body to replace the skin that is removed) may be done to cover the wound caused by surgery.     It is important to know whether cancer has spread to the lymph nodes. Lymph node mapping and sentinel lymph node biopsy are done to check for cancer in the sentinel lymph node (the first lymph node the cancer is likely to spread to from the tumor) during surgery. A radioactive substance and/or blue dye is injected near the tumor. The substance or dye flows through the lymph ducts to the lymph nodes. The first lymph node to receive the substance or dye is removed. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are found, more lymph nodes will be removed and tissue samples will be checked for signs of cancer. This is called a lymphadenectomy.    Even if the doctor removes all the melanoma that can be seen at the time of surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Chemotherapy given after surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.    Surgery to remove cancer that has spread to the lymph nodes, lung, gastrointestinal (GI) tract, bone, or brain may be done to improve the patients quality of life by controlling symptoms.       Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy).    One type of regional chemotherapy is hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion. With this method, anticancer drugs go directly to the arm or leg the cancer is in. The flow of blood to and from the limb is temporarily stopped with a tourniquet. A warm solution with the anticancer drug is put directly into the blood of the limb. This gives a high dose of drugs to the area where the cancer is.    The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Melanoma for more information.       Radiation therapy      Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat melanoma, and may also be used as palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life.       Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or biologic therapy.     The following types of immunotherapy are being used in the treatment of melanoma:            -  Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy: Some types of immune cells, such as T cells, and some cancer cells have certain proteins, called checkpoint proteins, on their surface that keep immune responses in check. When cancer cells have large amounts of these proteins, they will not be attacked and killed by T cells. Immune checkpoint inhibitors block these proteins and the ability of T cells to kill cancer cells is increased. They are used to treat some patients with advanced melanoma or tumors that cannot be removed by surgery. There are two types of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy:                  -  CTLA-4 inhibitor: CTL4-A is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When CTLA-4 attaches to another protein called B7 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. CTLA-4 inhibitors attach to CTLA-4 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Ipilimumab is a type of CTLA-4 inhibitor.       -  PD-1 inhibitor: PD-1 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When PD-1 attaches to another protein called PDL-1 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. PD-1 inhibitors attach to PDL-1 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Pembrolizumab and nivolumab are types of PD-1 inhibitors.                -  Interferon: Interferon affects the division of cancer cells and can slow tumor growth.     -  Interleukin-2 (IL-2): IL-2 boosts the growth and activity of many immune cells, especially lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). Lymphocytes can attack and kill cancer cells.     -  Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy: TNF is a protein made by white blood cells in response to an antigen or infection. TNF is made in the laboratory and used as a treatment to kill cancer cells. It is being studied in the treatment of melanoma.           See Drugs Approved for Melanoma for more information.       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. The following types of targeted therapy are used or being studied in the treatment of melanoma:             -  Signal transduction inhibitor therapy: Signal transduction inhibitors block signals that are passed from one molecule to another inside a cell. Blocking these signals may kill cancer cells.                   -  Vemurafenib, dabrafenib, trametinib, and cobimetinib are signal transduction inhibitors used to treat some patients with advanced melanoma or tumors that cannot be removed by surgery. Vemurafenib and dabrafenib block the activity of proteins made by mutant BRAF genes. Trametinib and cobimetinib affect the growth and survival of cancer cells.                -  Oncolytic virus therapy: A type of targeted therapy that is used in the treatment of melanoma. Oncolytic virus therapy uses a virus that infects and breaks down cancer cells but not normal cells. Radiation therapy or chemotherapy may be given after oncolytic virus therapy to kill more cancer cells.      -  Angiogenesis inhibitors: A type of targeted therapy that is being studied in the treatment of melanoma. Angiogenesis inhibitors block the growth of new blood vessels. In cancer treatment, they may be given to prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow.            New targeted therapies and combinations of therapies are being studied in the treatment of melanoma.    See Drugs Approved for Melanoma for more information.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website
                
                
                    Treatment for melanoma may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options by Stage
		            
		                
		                    Stage 0 (Melanoma in Situ)
		                    Treatment of stage 0 is usually surgery to remove the area of abnormal cells and a small amount of normal tissue around it.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage 0 melanoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage I Melanoma
		                    Treatment of stage I melanoma may include the following:          -  Surgery to remove the tumor and some of the normal tissue around it. Sometimes lymph node mapping and removal of lymph nodes is also done.     - A clinical trial of new ways to find cancer cells in the lymph nodes.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I melanoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage II Melanoma
		                    Treatment of stage II melanoma may include the following:         -  Surgery to remove the tumor and some of the normal tissue around it. Sometimes lymph node mapping and sentinel lymph node biopsy are done to check for cancer in the lymph nodes at the same time as the surgery to remove the tumor. If cancer is found in the sentinel lymph node, more lymph nodes may be removed.    - Surgery followed by immunotherapy with interferon if there is a high risk that the cancer will come back.    - A clinical trial of new types of treatment to be used after surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II melanoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage III Melanoma That Can Be Removed By Surgery
		                    Treatment of stage III melanoma that can be removed by surgery may include the following:         - Surgery to remove the tumor and some of the normal tissue around it. Skin grafting may be done to cover the wound caused by surgery. Sometimes lymph node mapping and sentinel lymph node biopsy are done to check for cancer in the lymph nodes at the same time as the surgery to remove the tumor. If cancer is found in the sentinel lymph node, more lymph nodes may be removed.    - Surgery followed by immunotherapy with ipilimumab or interferon if there is a high risk that the cancer will come back.    - A clinical trial of immunotherapy or targeted therapy to be used after surgery.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III melanoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage III Melanoma That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery, Stage IV Melanoma, and Recurrent Melanoma
		                    Treatment of stage III melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery, stage IV melanoma, and recurrent melanoma may include the following:         -  Immunotherapy with ipilimumab, pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or interleukin-2 (IL-2). Sometimes ipilimumab and nivolumab are given together.    -  Targeted therapy with vemurafenib, dabrafenib, trametinib, or cobimetinib. Sometimes vemurafenib and cobimetinib or dabrafenib and trametinib are given together.    -  Injections into the tumor, such as oncolytic virus therapy.    -  Chemotherapy.    -  Palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life. This may include:               - Surgery to remove lymph nodes or tumors in the lung, gastrointestinal (GI) tract, bone, or brain.      -  Radiation therapy to the brain, spinal cord, or bone.                  Treatments that are being studied in clinical trials for stage III melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery, stage IV melanoma, and recurrent melanoma include the following:          - Immunotherapy alone or in combination with other therapies such as targeted therapy.    - Targeted therapy, such as signal transduction inhibitors, angiogenesis inhibitors, oncolytic virus therapy, or drugs that target certain gene mutations. These may be given alone or in combination.    - Surgery to remove all known cancer.    -  Regional chemotherapy (hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion). Some patients may also have immunotherapy with tumor necrosis factor.    -  Systemic chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IV melanoma and recurrent melanoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
176,What are the symptoms of Osteomesopyknosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Osteomesopyknosis? Osteomesopyknosis may cause chronic, low-grade back pain in the thoracic (middle) and lumbar (lower) regions. It is considered a mild form of osteosclerosis and is usually found in young adults or teenagers. Height and intellect are not affected. Life expectancy in affected people is normal. There are cases of association with other findings such as ovarian sclerosis and lymphoma; however, it is uncertain whether they have been coincidental or features of the disorder. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteomesopyknosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Increased bone mineral density 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Kyphosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Abnormal cortical bone morphology 7.5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Infertility - Low back pain - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
177,What is (are) High Blood Pressure ?,"Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the blood vessels as the heart pumps blood. If your blood pressure rises and stays high over time, its called high blood pressure. High blood pressure is dangerous because it makes the heart work too hard, and the high force of the blood flow can harm arteries and organs such as the heart, kidneys, brain, and eyes."
178,What are the treatments for Geographic tongue ?,"What treatment is available for geographic tongue? Because geographic tongue is a benign (harmless) condition and does not typically cause symptoms, treatment is usually unnecessary. Even those patients who experience sensitivity to hot or spicy foods, generally do not require treatment. With severe symptoms, topical corticosteroids, zinc supplements, and topical anesthetic rinses seem to reduce the discomfort in some patients."
179,What are the symptoms of Keratoderma palmoplantar spastic paralysis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Keratoderma palmoplantar spastic paralysis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Keratoderma palmoplantar spastic paralysis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% EMG abnormality 90% Gait disturbance 90% Muscle weakness 90% Palmoplantar keratoderma 90% Paresthesia 90% Pes cavus 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 50% Hypertonia 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Heterogeneous - Motor axonal neuropathy - Nail dysplasia - Nail dystrophy - Sensory axonal neuropathy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
180,What are the treatments for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease ?,"There is no treatment that can cure or control CJD, although studies of a variety of drugs are now in progress. Current treatment is aimed at alleviating symptoms and making the person as comfortable as possible. Opiate drugs can help relieve pain, and the drugs clonazepam and sodium valproate may help relieve involuntary muscle jerks.Intravenous fluids and artificial feeding may be needed in later stages of the disease."
181,What are the treatments for Noonan syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Noonan syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Noonan Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 6  - Genetic Testing Registry: Noonan syndrome 7  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Noonan Syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
182,What is (are) Cat Scratch Disease ?,"Cat scratch disease (CSD) is an illness caused by the bacterium Bartonella henselae. Almost half of all cats carry the infection at some point. The infection does not make cats sick. However, the scratch or bite of an infected cat can cause symptoms in people, including        - Swollen lymph nodes, especially around the head, neck, and upper limbs    - Fever    -  Headache    - Fatigue    - Poor appetite        For people with weak immune systems, CSD may cause more serious problems. The best way to avoid CSD is to avoid rough play with cats that could lead to scratches or bites. If you do get a scratch or bite, wash it well with soap and water. If the bite or scratch gets infected or if you have symptoms of CSD, call your doctor.     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
183,What are the treatments for Klinefelter syndrome ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Klinefelter syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Klinefelter's syndrome, XXY  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Klinefelter Syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Testicular Failure   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
184,What is (are) Polycystic kidney disease ?,"Polycystic kidney disease refers to a group of inherited kidney disorders characterized by the presence of multiple cysts in both kidneys. Normal kidney tissue is replaced by fluid-filled sacs that interfere with the their ability to filter waste products from the blood. The growth of cysts causes the kidneys to become enlarged and can lead to kidney failure. Cysts may also develop in other organs, particularly the liver. However, signs and symptom severity can vary greatly from person to person. Treatment is tailored to the individual based upon their signs and symptoms. The two major forms of polycystic kidney disease are distinguished by the usual age of onset and their pattern of inheritance: (1) Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is the most common form that usually causes symptoms between the ages of 30 and 40; but they can begin earlier, even in childhood. ADPKD can be further divided into type 1 and type 2, depending on the underlying genetic cause. (2) Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is a rare form that usually causes symptoms in infancy and early childhood and is often lethal early in life. Some people with ARPKD do not develop symptoms until later in childhood or even adulthood."
185,What are the symptoms of Globozoospermia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Globozoospermia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Globozoospermia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Globozoospermia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
186,What is (are) congenital mirror movement disorder ?,"Congenital mirror movement disorder is a condition in which intentional movements of one side of the body are mirrored by involuntary movements of the other side. For example, when an affected individual makes a fist with the right hand, the left hand makes a similar movement. The mirror movements in this disorder primarily involve the upper limbs, especially the hands and fingers. This pattern of movements is present from infancy or early childhood and usually persists throughout life, without other associated signs and symptoms. Intelligence and lifespan are not affected.  People with congenital mirror movement disorder can have some difficulty with certain activities of daily living, particularly with those requiring different movements in each hand, such as typing on a keyboard. They may experience discomfort or pain in the upper limbs during prolonged use of the hands.  The extent of the mirror movements in this disorder can vary, even within the same family. In most cases, the involuntary movements are noticeable but less pronounced than the corresponding voluntary movements. The extent of the movements typically stay the same throughout the lifetime of an affected individual.  Mirror movements can also occur in people who do not have congenital mirror movement disorder. Mild mirror movements are common during the normal development of young children and typically disappear before age 7. They can also develop later in life in people with neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson disease. Mirror movements may also be present in certain other conditions with a wider range of signs and symptoms (syndromes)."
187,What is (are) Age-related Macular Degeneration ?,"Wet AMD occurs when abnormal blood vessels behind the retina start to grow under the macula. With wet AMD, loss of central vision can occur quickly. Wet AMD is considered to be advanced AMD and is more severe than the dry form."
188,What are the treatments for short-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of SCAD deficiency:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Short-Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Deficiency of butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Newborn Screening Tests   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
189,How to prevent Acanthamoeba - Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE); Keratitis ?,Topics
190,What is (are) Autoimmune Hepatitis ?,"Autoimmune hepatitis is classified into several types. Type 1 autoimmune hepatitis is the most common form in North America. Type 1 can occur at any age; however, it most often starts in adolescence or young adulthood. About 70 percent of people with type 1 autoimmune hepatitis are female.1
                
People with type 1 autoimmune hepatitis commonly have other autoimmune disorders, such as
                
- celiac disease, an autoimmune disease in which people cannot tolerate gluten because it damages the lining of their small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients  - Crohn's disease, which causes inflammation and irritation of any part of the digestive tract  - Graves' disease, the most common cause of hyperthyroidism in the United States  - Hashimoto's disease, also called chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis or autoimmune thyroiditis, a form of chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland  - proliferative glomerulonephritis, or inflammation of the glomeruli, which are tiny clusters of looping blood vessels in the kidneys  - primary sclerosing cholangitis, which causes irritation, scarring, and narrowing of the bile ducts inside and outside the liver  - rheumatoid arthritis, which causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints  - Sjgren's syndrome, which causes dryness in the mouth and eyes  - systemic lupus erythematosus, which causes kidney inflammation called lupus nephritis  - type 1 diabetes, a condition characterized by high blood glucose, also called blood sugar, levels caused by a total lack of insulin  - ulcerative colitis, a chronic disease that causes inflammation and sores, called ulcers, in the inner lining of the large intestine
                
Type 2 autoimmune hepatitis is less common and occurs more often in children than adults.1 People with type 2 can also have any of the above autoimmune disorders."
191,Is acute promyelocytic leukemia inherited ?,Acute promyelocytic leukemia is not inherited but arises from a translocation in the body's cells that occurs after conception.
192,what can i do to prevent poisoning by marine toxins?,General guidelines for safe seafood consumption:
193,What is the outlook for Coffin Lowry Syndrome ?,The prognosis for individuals with Coffin-Lowry syndrome varies depending on the severity of symptoms. Early intervention may improve the outlook for patients. Life span is reduced in some individuals with Coffin-Lowry syndrome.
194,What are the treatments for warfarin sensitivity ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of warfarin sensitivity:  - Food and Drug Administration Medication Guide  - MedlinePlus Drugs & Supplements: Warfarin  - My46 Trait Profile  - PharmGKB  - WarfarinDosing.org   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
195,What are the symptoms of Amaurosis congenita cone-rod type with congenital hypertrichosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Amaurosis congenita cone-rod type with congenital hypertrichosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Amaurosis congenita cone-rod type with congenital hypertrichosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eyelashes 90% Coarse hair 90% Hypermetropia 90% Nystagmus 90% Optic atrophy 90% Photophobia 90% Synophrys 90% Thick eyebrow 90% Visual impairment 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital visual impairment - Hirsutism - Retinal dystrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
196,What is (are) Langer-Giedion syndrome ?,"Langer-Giedion syndrome is a condition that causes bone abnormalities and distinctive facial features. People with this condition have multiple noncancerous (benign) bone tumors called osteochondromas. Multiple osteochondromas may result in pain, limited range of joint movement, and pressure on nerves, blood vessels, the spinal cord, and tissues surrounding the osteochondromas. Affected individuals also have short stature and cone-shaped ends of the long bones (epiphyses). The characteristic appearance of individuals with Langer-Giedion syndrome includes sparse scalp hair, a rounded nose, a long flat area between the nose and the upper lip (philtrum), and a thin upper lip. Some people with this condition have loose skin in childhood, which typically resolves with age. Affected individuals may have some intellectual disability."
197,What are the treatments for Neurological Sequelae Of Lupus ?,"There is no cure for lupus. Treatment is symptomatic. With a combination of medication, rest, exercise, proper nutrition, and stress management, most individuals with lupus can often achieve remission or reduce their symptom levels. Medications used in the treatment of lupus may include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, antimalarials, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressive drugs."
198,What is (are) Abscess ?,"An abscess is a pocket of pus. You can get an abscess almost anywhere in your body. When an area of your body becomes infected, your body's immune system tries to fight the infection. White blood cells go to the infected area, collect within the damaged tissue, and cause inflammation. During this process, pus forms. Pus is a mixture of living and dead white blood cells, germs, and dead tissue.     Bacteria, viruses, parasites and swallowed objects can all lead to abscesses. Skin abscesses are easy to detect. They are red, raised and painful. Abscesses inside your body may not be obvious and can damage organs, including the brain, lungs and others. Treatments include drainage and antibiotics."
199,What is (are) Leukemia ?,"Leukemia is a cancer of the blood cells. It is the most common type of blood cancer and affects 10 times as many adults as children. Most people diagnosed with leukemia are over 50 years old. Leukemia Starts in Bone Marrow Leukemia usually begins in the bone marrow, the soft material in the center of most bones where blood cells are formed. The bone marrow makes three types of blood cells, and each type has a special function. - White blood cells fight infection and disease.  - Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body.  - Platelets help control bleeding by forming blood clots. White blood cells fight infection and disease. Red blood cells carry oxygen throughout the body. Platelets help control bleeding by forming blood clots. In people with leukemia, the bone marrow produces abnormal white blood cells, called leukemia cells. At first, leukemia cells function almost normally. But over time, as more leukemia cells are produced, they may crowd out the healthy white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. This makes it difficult for the blood to carry out its normal functions. There are four common types of adult leukemia. Two are chronic, meaning they get worse over a longer period of time. The other two are acute, meaning they get worse quickly. - chronic lymphocytic leukemia  - chronic myeloid leukemia  - acute myeloid leukemia  - acute lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myeloid leukemia acute myeloid leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia Chronic and Acute Leukemia Chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myeloid leukemia, and acute myeloid leukemia are diagnosed more often in older adults. Of these, chronic lymphocytic leukemia is the most common. Acute lymphocytic leukemia is found more often in children. The symptoms for each type of leukemia differ but may include fevers, frequent infections, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, weight loss, and bleeding and bruising easily. However, such symptoms are not sure signs of leukemia. An infection or another problem also could cause these symptoms. Only a doctor can diagnose and treat the problem. (Watch the video to learn how the rates of leukemia diagnosis vary by age. To enlarge the video, click the brackets in the lower right-hand corner. To reduce the video, press the Escape (Esc) button on your keyboard.)  Learn more about chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  Learn more about acute myeloid leukemia.  Other Cancers That Affect Blood Cells Myeloma and lymphoma are other types of cancer that affect blood cells, but these cancer cells are rarely found in the blood stream. Myeloma is the second most common form of blood cancer, and it affects plasma cells, a type of white blood cell that is found in the bone marrow. Lymphoma accounts for about five percent of all the types of cancer in the United States. It starts in the lymphatic system, which is part of the body's immune system. Both myeloma and lymphoma are more common among older adults and occur more often in men than women.  Learn more about myeloma.  Many Treatments Are Available There are many methods available to treat acute and chronic leukemia, and there are many new treatments being developed that are rapidly changing how numerous types of leukemia are treated. The types of treatments depend on the specific disease and how best to treat it. Some people receive a combination of treatments. Acute leukemia usually needs to be treated right away. But there are many different kinds of acute leukemia. Some respond well to treatment and can be cured in some cases, while others are more difficult to treat. Treatment for chronic leukemia can often control the disease and its symptoms and there are new treatments being developed that may prolong survival. Also, there are several treatments now available for chronic myeloid leukemia that can control the disease for a long time."
200,What is (are) Bladder cancer ?,"Bladder cancer is a form of cancer that occurs due to abnormal and uncontrolled cell growth in the bladder. Signs and symptoms of the condition may include abdominal pain, blood in the urine, fatigue, painful urination, frequent urination, incontinence, and/or weightloss. Most cases of bladder cancer occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Risk factors for the condition include smoking, exposure to certain chemicals, and having chronic bladder infections. Treatment varies based on the severity of the condition and may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and/or biological therapy."
201,How many people are affected by aniridia ?,"Aniridia occurs in 1 in 50,000 to 100,000 newborns worldwide."
202,What causes Schindler disease type 1 ?,"What causes Schindler disease type 1? Schindler disease type 1 is caused by mutations in the NAGA gene. This gene provides instructions for making the enzyme alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase.This enzyme works in the lysosomes  (compartments within cells that digest and recycle materials) to help break down complexes called glycoproteins and glycolipids (sugar molecules attached to certain proteins and fats). More specifically, alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase helps remove a molecule called alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine from sugars in these complexes. Mutations in the NAGA gene interfere with the ability of the alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase enzyme to perform its role in breaking down glycoproteins and glycoliipids. These substances accumulate in the lysosomes and cause cells to malfunction and eventually die. Cell damage in the nervous system and other tissues and organs of the body leads to the signs and symptoms of Schindler disease type 1."
203,What are the treatments for autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy:  - American Foundation for the Blind: Living with Vision Loss  - Genetic Testing Registry: Vitreoretinochoroidopathy dominant   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
204,Who is at risk for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (Islet Cell Tumors)? ?,Having certain syndromes can increase the risk of pancreatic NETs. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesn't mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.     Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome is a risk factor for pancreatic NETs.
205,"What are the symptoms of Escobar syndrome, type B ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Escobar syndrome, type B? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Escobar syndrome, type B. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Amniotic constriction ring 90% Finger syndactyly 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Pectus excavatum 90% Scoliosis 90% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 90% Webbed neck 90% Abnormality of the foot 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Epicanthus 50% Facial asymmetry 50% Hypertelorism 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Long face 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Microcephaly 50% Pointed chin 50% Popliteal pterygium 50% Ptosis 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Short stature 50% Telecanthus 50% Umbilical hernia 50% Vertebral segmentation defect 50% Abnormality of female external genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the abdominal organs 7.5% Abnormality of the aortic valve 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Aortic dilatation 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Dolichocephaly 7.5% Gait disturbance 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low posterior hairline 7.5% Scrotal hypoplasia 7.5% Skeletal muscle atrophy 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Abnormality of the neck - Absence of labia majora - Antecubital pterygium - Anterior clefting of vertebral bodies - Arachnodactyly - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Axillary pterygia - Bilateral camptodactyly - Camptodactyly of toe - Congenital diaphragmatic hernia - Decreased fetal movement - Diaphragmatic eventration - Dislocated radial head - Downturned corners of mouth - Dysplastic patella - Exostosis of the external auditory canal - Fused cervical vertebrae - High palate - Hip dislocation - Hypoplastic nipples - Hypospadias - Inguinal hernia - Intercrural pterygium - Kyphosis - Long clavicles - Low-set ears - Narrow mouth - Neck pterygia - Neonatal respiratory distress - Patellar aplasia - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Rib fusion - Rocker bottom foot - Syndactyly - Talipes calcaneovalgus - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
206,What is (are) Chondrodysplasia punctata 2 X-linked dominant ?,"X-linked dominant chondrodysplasia punctata (CDPX2), also known as Conradi-Hnermann-Happle syndrome, is a rare form of skeletal dysplasia characterized by skeletal malformations, skin abnormalities, cataracts and short stature. The specific symptoms and severity of the disorder may vary greatly from one individual to another. CDPX2 is caused by mutations in the emopamil binding protein gene, EBP. In many cases, this mutation occurs randomly, for no apparent reason (i.e., new mutation). The condition  is inherited as an X-linked dominant trait and occurs almost exclusively in females. Treatment of CDPX2 is directed toward the specific symptoms that present in each individual. Such treatment may require the coordinated efforts of a team of medical professionals, including physicians who diagnose and treat disorders of the skeleton, joints, muscles, and related tissues (orthopedists); skin specialists (dermatologists); eye specialists; and/or other health care professionals."
207,What are the treatments for diastrophic dysplasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of diastrophic dysplasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Diastrophic Dysplasia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Diastrophic dysplasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
208,What is (are) Genoa syndrome ?,"Genoa syndrome is a rare condition that primarily affects the brain and skull. Babies with this condition are generally born with semilobar holoprosencephaly, a disorder caused by failure of the developing brain to sufficiently divide into the double lobes of the cerebral hemispheres. They later develop craniosynostosis (the premature closure of one or more of the fibrous joints between the bones of the skull before brain growth is complete). Genoa syndrome also appears to be associated with other skeletal abnormalities, including those of the hands, and distinctive facial features. The underlying genetic cause of the condition is currently unknown. Some reports suggest that Genoa syndrome may be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is supportive and based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
209,What is (are) Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome ?,"Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome is an inherited condition that affects many parts of the body and has been described only in the Japanese population. Beginning in infancy or early childhood, affected individuals develop red, swollen lumps (nodular erythema) on the skin that occur most often in cold weather; recurrent fevers; and elongated fingers and toes with widened and rounded tips (clubbing).  Later in childhood, affected individuals develop joint pain and joint deformities called contractures that limit movement, particularly in the hands, wrists, and elbows. They also experience weakness and wasting of muscles, along with a loss of fatty tissue (lipodystrophy), mainly in the upper body. The combination of muscle and fat loss worsens over time, leading to an extremely thin (emaciated) appearance in the face, chest, and arms.  Other signs and symptoms of Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome can include an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly), a shortage of red blood cells (anemia), a reduced amount of blood clotting cells called platelets (thrombocytopenia), and abnormal deposits of calcium (calcification) in an area of the brain called the basal ganglia. Intellectual disability has been reported in some affected individuals.  The signs and symptoms of Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome overlap with those of two other conditions: one called joint contractures, muscular atrophy, microcytic anemia, and panniculitis-induced lipodystrophy (JMP) syndrome; and the other called chronic atypical neutrophilic dermatosis with lipodystrophy and elevated temperature (CANDLE) syndrome. All three conditions are characterized by skin abnormalities and lipodystrophy. Although they are often considered separate disorders, they are caused by mutations in the same gene, and some researchers believe they may represent different forms of a single condition."
210,How to diagnose Lujo Hemorrhagic Fever (LUHF) ?,"During the acute febrile phase, Lujo virus was isolated from blood from days 2 to 13 after onset. Virus was also isolated from liver tissue obtained post-mortem. A subsequent complete genomic analysis of Lujo virus facilitated the development of specific molecular detection (RT-PCR) assays. 
   
Serologic diagnosis of Lujo hemorrhagic fever can be made by indirect immunofluorescent assay and ELISA. However, individuals from endemic areas displaying fever, rash, pharyngitis, accompanied by laboratory findings of low platelet counts and elevated liver enzymes, should be suspected of having a hemorrhagic fever virus infection. Clinical specimens should be tested using specific assays."
211,What causes Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ?,"What causes Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans? The cause of DFSP is unknown but an injury to the affected skin may be a predisposing factor. Trauma at the affected site has been reported in approximately 10-20% of patients. Recent advances have shown that in approximately 90% of cases, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is associated with a rearrangement (translocation) of genetic material between chromosomes 17 and 22 which results in the fusion of two genes. The fused gene produces a protein which some believe may stimulate cells to multiply, leading to the tumor formation seen in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans. This type of gene change is generally found only in tumor cells and is not inherited."
212,What are the treatments for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy 2  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Facioscapulohumeral Muscular Dystrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
213,Is Leydig cell hypoplasia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Only people who have mutations in both copies of the LHCGR gene and are genetically male (with one X and one Y chromosome in each cell) have the characteristic signs of Leydig cell hypoplasia. Although people who are genetically female (with two X chromosomes in each cell) may inherit mutations in both copies of the LHCGR gene, they do not have Leydig cell hypoplasia because they do not have Leydig cells. They have normal female genitalia and normal breast and pubic hair development, but they may begin menstruation later than usual (after age 16) and have irregular menstrual periods. LHCGR gene mutations in females also prevent ovulation, leading to inability to have children (infertility)."
214,What are the treatments for hepatic veno-occlusive disease with immunodeficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of VODI:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hepatic Veno-Occlusive Disease with Immunodeficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hepatic venoocclusive disease with immunodeficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
215,Do you have information about Child Care,"Summary : Children's healthy development depends on safe and positive experiences when they are very young. If you work or go to school, you want to know that your child is in good hands while you are away. You may choose in-home care, where the caregiver comes to your home. Or your child might go to the caregiver's home. Finally, there are child care centers. You need to choose the one that works for your family.     It is important to get to know your child's caregivers. They will be a big part of your child's life. The caregiver's training should involve       - Knowledge of how young children learn and grow    - Positive, consistent discipline    - Knowledge of the signs that a child is sick    - Cleanliness and safety practices to help keep kids from getting sick or hurt    - Basic first aid"
216,What causes Hearing Loss ?,"Hearing loss can result from taking certain medications. ""Ototoxic"" medications damage the inner ear, sometimes permanently. Check with your doctor if you notice a problem while taking a medication."
217,What is (are) Perry syndrome ?,"Perry syndrome is a progressive brain disease that is characterized by four major features: a pattern of movement abnormalities known as parkinsonism, psychiatric changes, weight loss, and abnormally slow breathing (hypoventilation). These signs and symptoms typically appear in a person's forties or fifties.  Parkinsonism and psychiatric changes are usually the earliest features of Perry syndrome. Signs of parkinsonism include unusually slow movements (bradykinesia), stiffness, and tremors. These movement abnormalities are often accompanied by changes in personality and behavior. The most frequent psychiatric changes that occur in people with Perry syndrome include depression, a general loss of interest and enthusiasm (apathy), withdrawal from friends and family, and suicidal thoughts. Many affected individuals also experience significant, unexplained weight loss early in the disease.  Hypoventilation is a later feature of Perry syndrome. Abnormally slow breathing most often occurs at night, causing affected individuals to wake up frequently. As the disease worsens, hypoventilation can result in a life-threatening lack of oxygen and respiratory failure.  People with Perry syndrome typically survive for about 5 years after signs and symptoms first appear. Most affected individuals ultimately die of respiratory failure or pneumonia. Suicide is another cause of death in this condition."
218,What are the symptoms of Popliteal pterygium syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Popliteal pterygium syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Popliteal pterygium syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cleft palate 90% Hypertrichosis 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Toe syndactyly 90% Abnormality of female external genitalia 50% Abnormality of the palpebral fissures 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Abnormality of the toenails 50% Bifid scrotum 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Lip pit 50% Non-midline cleft lip 50% Popliteal pterygium 50% Scoliosis 50% Scrotal hypoplasia 50% Talipes 50% Choanal atresia 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Split hand 7.5% Ankyloblepharon - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cleft upper lip - Cutaneous finger syndactyly - Dementia - Fibrous syngnathia - Hypoplasia of the uterus - Hypoplasia of the vagina - Hypoplastic labia majora - Intercrural pterygium - Lower lip pit - Pyramidal skinfold extending from the base to the top of the nails - Spina bifida occulta - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
219,Who is at risk for Pancreatic Cancer? ?,"Smoking and health history can affect the risk of pancreatic cancer. Anything that increases your risk of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk.     Risk factors for pancreatic cancer include the following:         - Smoking.    - Being very overweight.    - Having a personal history of diabetes or chronic pancreatitis.    - Having a family history of pancreatic cancer or pancreatitis.    - Having certain hereditary conditions, such as:               -  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome.      -  Hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC; Lynch syndrome).      -  von Hippel-Lindau syndrome.      -  Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.      -  Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.      -  Familial atypical multiple mole melanoma (FAMMM) syndrome."
220,How to prevent COPD ?,"If you have COPD, you can take these steps to prevent complications and control the disabling effects of the disease. - Quit smoking.   - Avoid exposure to pollutants and lung irritants.  - Take precautions against the flu.  - Talk to your doctor about the flu and pneumonia vaccines.  - See your doctor on a regular basis.   - Follow your treatments for COPD exactly as your doctor prescribes. Quit smoking. Avoid exposure to pollutants and lung irritants. Take precautions against the flu. Talk to your doctor about the flu and pneumonia vaccines. See your doctor on a regular basis. Follow your treatments for COPD exactly as your doctor prescribes. Quit Smoking If you smoke, the most important thing you can do to prevent more lung damage is to stop smoking. Quitting can help prevent complications and slow the progress of the disease. It is also important to stay away from people who smoke and places where you know there will be smokers. To help you quit, there are many online resources and several new aids available from your doctor or health care provider. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) has information on smoking cessation. Visit SmokeFree.gov , or check out NCI's  Clear Horizons,  a quit smoking guide for people 50+. You can also visit The American Lung Association, or call 1-800-QUIT NOW (1-800-784-8669). Avoid Exposure to Pollutants and Lung Irritants Try to stay away from other things that could irritate your lungs, like dust and strong fumes. Stay indoors when the outside air quality is poor. You should also stay away from places where there might be cigarette smoke. Take Precautions Against the Flu The flu (influenza) can cause serious problems for people who have COPD. Do your best to avoid crowds during flu season. In addition to avoiding people with the flu, remembering to wash and sanitize your hands can be one of the best ways to guard against getting sick. Talk to Your Doctor About the Flu (influenza) and Pneumonia Vaccines Talk with your doctor about getting a yearly flu shot and whether and when you should get the pneumonia vaccine. Flu shots can reduce your risk of getting the flu, and the pneumonia vaccine lowers your risk for pneumococcal pneumonia (NU-mo-KOK-al nu-MO-ne-ah) and its complications. Both of these illnesses are major health risks for people who have COPD. See Your Doctor Regularly See your doctor or health care provider regularly even if you are feeling fine. Make a list of your breathing symptoms and think about any activities that you can no longer do because of shortness of breath. Be sure to bring a list of all the medicines you are taking to each office visit. Follow Your Treatments Follow your treatments for COPD exactly as your doctor prescribes. They can help you breathe easier, stay more active, and avoid or manage severe symptoms."
221,What is (are) Colonic Polyps ?,"A polyp is an extra piece of tissue that grows inside your body. Colonic polyps grow in the large intestine, or colon. Most polyps are not dangerous. However, some polyps may turn into cancer or already be cancer. To be safe, doctors remove polyps and test them. Polyps can be removed when a doctor examines the inside of the large intestine during a colonoscopy.    Anyone can get polyps, but certain people are more likely than others. You may have a greater chance of getting polyps if you        -  Are over age 50     -  Have had polyps before     -  Have a family member with polyps     -  Have a family history of colon cancer        Most colon polyps do not cause symptoms. If you have symptoms, they may include blood on your underwear or on toilet paper after a bowel movement, blood in your stool, or constipation or diarrhea lasting more than a week.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
222,What are the symptoms of Febrile infection-related epilepsy syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Febrile infection-related epilepsy syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Febrile infection-related epilepsy syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Developmental regression 90% EEG abnormality 90% Reduced consciousness/confusion 90% Seizures 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Migraine 50% Myalgia 50% Sinusitis 50% Autoimmunity 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
223,What are the symptoms of Multiple pterygium syndrome Escobar type ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Multiple pterygium syndrome Escobar type? Symptoms of multiple pterygium syndrome, Escobar type vary but may include short stature, vertebral (spine) defects, joint contractures, and webbing of the neck, armpit, elbow, knee, between the legs, and of the fingers and toes. The joint contractures may interfere with walking, making walking more difficult. Other symptoms may include down-slanting eyes, skin fold over the inner corner of the eye, a pointed, receding chin, droopy eye lids, and cleft palate. Males with Escobar syndrome may have undescended testicles at birth, and females may have absent labia majora. People with Escobar syndrome may have in-curving of the little finger, joined fingers, and rocker-bottom feet. They may also have kyphoscoliosis and other spine defects, such as fusion of the spine. Abnormal ossicles (the three small bones in the ear) may lead to conductive hearing loss. Other skeletal anomalies include rib fusions, radial head and hip dislocations, talipes calcaneovalgus (the foot points inwards and down) or club foot, and missing or underdeveloped kneecap. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multiple pterygium syndrome Escobar type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Amniotic constriction ring 90% Finger syndactyly 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Pectus excavatum 90% Scoliosis 90% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 90% Webbed neck 90% Abnormality of the foot 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Epicanthus 50% Facial asymmetry 50% Hypertelorism 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Long face 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Microcephaly 50% Pointed chin 50% Popliteal pterygium 50% Ptosis 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Short stature 50% Telecanthus 50% Umbilical hernia 50% Vertebral segmentation defect 50% Abnormality of female external genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the abdominal organs 7.5% Abnormality of the aortic valve 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Aortic dilatation 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Dolichocephaly 7.5% Gait disturbance 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low posterior hairline 7.5% Scrotal hypoplasia 7.5% Skeletal muscle atrophy 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Abnormality of the neck - Absence of labia majora - Antecubital pterygium - Anterior clefting of vertebral bodies - Arachnodactyly - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Axillary pterygia - Bilateral camptodactyly - Camptodactyly of toe - Congenital diaphragmatic hernia - Decreased fetal movement - Diaphragmatic eventration - Dislocated radial head - Downturned corners of mouth - Dysplastic patella - Exostosis of the external auditory canal - Fused cervical vertebrae - High palate - Hip dislocation - Hypoplastic nipples - Hypospadias - Inguinal hernia - Intercrural pterygium - Kyphosis - Long clavicles - Low-set ears - Narrow mouth - Neck pterygia - Neonatal respiratory distress - Patellar aplasia - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Rib fusion - Rocker bottom foot - Syndactyly - Talipes calcaneovalgus - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
224,Is Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 inherited ?,"How is primary hyperoxaluria type 2 inherited? Primary hyperoxaluria type 2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
225,What are the treatments for Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with childhood rhabdomyosarcoma.    - Children with rhabdomyosarcoma should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.     - Treatment for childhood rhabdomyosarcoma may cause side effects.    - Three types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Radiation therapy     - Chemotherapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.         - High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     - Immunotherapy     - Targeted therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with childhood rhabdomyosarcoma.
                    Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment.   Because cancer in children is rare, taking part in a clinical trial should be considered. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Children with rhabdomyosarcoma should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.
                    Because rhabdomyosarcoma can form in many different parts of the body, many different kinds of treatments are used. Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other health care providers who are experts in treating children with rhabdomyosarcoma and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:         -  Pediatrician.    -  Pediatric surgeon.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Pediatric hematologist.    -  Pediatric radiologist.    -  Pediatric nurse specialist.    -  Geneticist or cancer genetics risk counselor.    -  Social worker.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.
                
                
                    Treatment for childhood rhabdomyosarcoma may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects that begin during treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.   Side effects from cancer treatment that begin after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment for rhabdomyosarcoma may include:         - Physical problems.    - Changes in mood, feelings, thinking, learning, or memory.    -  Second cancers (new types of cancer).        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on your child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information.)
                
                
                    Three types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Surgery (removing the cancer in an operation) is used to treat childhood rhabdomyosarcoma. A type of surgery called wide local excision is often done. A wide local excision is the removal of tumor and some of the tissue around it, including the lymph nodes. A second surgery may be needed to remove all the cancer. Whether surgery is done and the type of surgery done depends on the following:            - Where in the body the tumor started.      - The effect the surgery will have on the way the child will look.     - The effect the surgery will have on the child's important body functions.     - How the tumor responded to chemotherapy or radiation therapy that may have been given first.           In most children with rhabdomyosarcoma, it is not possible to remove all of the tumor by surgery.     Rhabdomyosarcoma can form in many different places in the body and the surgery will be different for each site. Surgery to treat rhabdomyosarcoma of the eye or genital areas is usually a biopsy. Chemotherapy, and sometimes radiation therapy, may be given before surgery to shrink large tumors.    Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, patients will be given chemotherapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Radiation therapy may also be given. Treatment given after the surgery to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Radiation therapy    Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or stop them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer. Certain ways of giving radiation therapy can help keep radiation from damaging nearby healthy tissue. These types of external radiation therapy include the following:                  -  Conformal radiation therapy: Conformal radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy that uses a computer to make a 3-dimensional (3-D) picture of the tumor and shapes the radiation beams to fit the tumor. This allows a high dose of radiation to reach the tumor and causes less damage to nearby healthy tissue.        -  Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT): IMRT is a type of 3-dimensional (3-D) radiation therapy that uses a computer to make pictures of the size and shape of the tumor. Thin beams of radiation of different intensities (strengths) are aimed at the tumor from many angles.       - Volumetrical modulated arc therapy (VMAT): VMAT is type of 3-D radiation therapy that uses a computer to make pictures of the size and shape of the tumor. The radiation machine moves in a circle around the patient once during treatment and sends thin beams of radiation of different intensities (strengths) at the tumor. Treatment with VMAT is delivered faster than treatment with IMRT.       -  Stereotactic body radiation therapy: Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy. Special equipment is used to place the patient in the same position for each radiation treatment. Once a day for several days, a radiation machine aims a larger than usual dose of radiation directly at the tumor. By having the patient in the same position for each treatment, there is less damage to nearby healthy tissue. This procedure is also called stereotactic external-beam radiation therapy and stereotaxic radiation therapy.       -  Proton beam radiation therapy: Proton-beam therapy is a type of high-energy, external radiation therapy. A radiation therapy machine aims streams of protons (tiny, invisible, positively-charged particles) at the cancer cells to kill them. This type of treatment causes less damage to nearby healthy tissue.                -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer. It is used to treat cancer in areas such as the vagina, vulva, uterus, bladder, prostate, head, or neck. Internal radiation therapy is also called brachytherapy, internal radiation, implant radiation, or interstitial radiation therapy.           The type and amount of radiation therapy and when it is given depends on the age of the child, the type of rhabdomyosarcoma, where in the body the tumor started, how much tumor remained after surgery, and whether there is tumor in the nearby lymph nodes.     External radiation therapy is usually used to treat childhood rhabdomyosarcoma but in certain cases internal radiation therapy is used.       Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy).    Chemotherapy may also be given to shrink the tumor before surgery in order to save as much healthy tissue as possible. This is called neoadjuvant chemotherapy.    Every child treated for rhabdomyosarcoma should receive systemic chemotherapy to decrease the chance the cancer will recur. The type of anticancer drug, dose, and the number of treatments given depends on whether the child has low-risk, intermediate-risk, or high-risk rhabdomyosarcoma.    See Drugs Approved for Rhabdomyosarcoma for more information.
                            
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                
					            Treatment Options for Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma
					            
					                
					                    Previously Untreated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma
					                    The treatment of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma often includes surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. The order that these treatments are given depends on where in the body the tumor started, the size of the tumor, the type of tumor, and whether the tumor has spread to lymph nodes or other parts of the body. See the Treatment Option Overview section of this summary for more information about surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy used to treat children with rhabdomyosarcoma.      Rhabdomyosarcoma of the brain and head and neck       - For tumors of the brain: Treatment may include surgery to remove the tumor, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.    - For tumors of the head and neck that are in or near the eye: Treatment may include chemotherapy and radiation therapy. If the tumor remains or comes back after treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, surgery to remove the eye and some tissues around the eye may be needed.    - For tumors of the head and neck that are near the ear, nose, sinuses, or base of the skull but not in or near the eye: Treatment may include radiation therapy and chemotherapy.    - For tumors of the head and neck that are not in or near the eye and not near the ear, nose, sinuses, or base of the skull: Treatment may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery to remove the tumor.    - For tumors of the head and neck that cannot be removed by surgery: Treatment may include chemotherapy and radiation therapy including stereotactic body radiation therapy.    - For tumors of the larynx (voice box): Treatment may include chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Surgery to remove the larynx is usually not done, so that the voice is not harmed.           Rhabdomyosarcoma of the arms or legs       -  Chemotherapy followed by surgery to remove the tumor. If the tumor was not completely removed, a second surgery to remove the tumor may be done. Radiation therapy may also be given.    - For tumors of the hand or foot, radiation therapy and chemotherapy may be given. The tumor may not be removed because it would affect the function of the hand or foot.    -  Lymph node dissection (one or more lymph nodes are removed and a sample of tissue is checked under a microscope for signs of cancer).                - For tumors in the arms, lymph nodes near the tumor and in the armpit area are removed.      - For tumors in the legs, lymph nodes near the tumor and in the groin area are removed.                    Rhabdomyosarcoma of the chest, abdomen, or pelvis       - For tumors in the chest or abdomen (including the chest wall or abdominal wall): Surgery (wide local excision) may be done. If the tumor is large, chemotherapy and radiation therapy are given to shrink the tumor before surgery.    - For tumors of the pelvis: Surgery (wide local excision) may be done. If the tumor is large, chemotherapy is given to shrink the tumor before surgery. Radiation therapy may be given after surgery.    - For tumors of the diaphragm: A biopsy of the tumor is followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy to shrink the tumor. Surgery may be done later to remove any remaining cancer cells.    - For tumors of the gallbladder or bile ducts: A biopsy of the tumor is followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy.    - For tumors of the muscles or tissues around the anus or between the vulva and the anus or the scrotum and the anus: Surgery is done to remove as much of the tumor as possible and some nearby lymph nodes, followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy.           Rhabdomyosarcoma of the kidney       - For tumors of the kidney: Surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy may also be given.           Rhabdomyosarcoma of the bladder and prostate       - For tumors that are only at the top of the bladder: Surgery (wide local excision) is done.    - For tumors of the prostate or bladder (other than the top of the bladder):                -  Chemotherapy and radiation therapy are given first to shrink the tumor. If cancer cells remain after chemotherapy and radiation therapy, the tumor is removed by surgery. Surgery may include removal of the prostate, part of the bladder, or pelvic exenteration without removal of the rectum. (This may include removal of the lower colon and bladder. In girls, the cervix, vagina, ovaries, and nearby lymph nodes may be removed).      - Chemotherapy is given first to shrink the tumor. Surgery to remove the tumor, but not the bladder or prostate, is done. Internal or external radiation therapy may be given after surgery.                    Rhabdomyosarcoma of the area near the testicles       -  Surgery to remove the testicle and spermatic cord. The lymph nodes in the back of the abdomen may be checked for cancer, especially if the lymph nodes are large or the child is 10 years or older.     -  Radiation therapy may be given if the tumor cannot be completely removed by surgery.            Rhabdomyosarcoma of the vulva, vagina, uterus, cervix, or ovary       - For tumors of the vulva and vagina: Treatment may include chemotherapy followed by surgery to remove the tumor. Internal or external radiation therapy may be given after surgery.    - For tumors of the uterus: Treatment may include chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy. Sometimes surgery may be needed to remove any remaining cancer cells.    - For tumors of the cervix: Treatment may include chemotherapy followed by surgery to remove any remaining tumor.    - For tumors of the ovary: Treatment may include chemotherapy followed by surgery to remove any remaining tumor.          Metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma     Treatment, such as chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or surgery to remove the tumor, is given to the site where the tumor first formed. If the cancer has spread to the brain, spinal cord, or lungs, radiation therapy may also be given to the sites where the cancer has spread.   The following treatment is being studied for metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma:          - A clinical trial of immunotherapy (vaccine therapy).        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with previously untreated childhood rhabdomyosarcoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
					                
					                
					                    Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma
					                    Treatment options for recurrent childhood rhabdomyosarcoma are based on many factors, including where in the body the cancer has come back, what type of treatment the child had before, and the needs of the child.    Treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma may include one or more of the following:         -  Surgery.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  Chemotherapy.    - A clinical trial of high-dose chemotherapy followed by stem cell transplant using the patient's own stem cells.    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy or immunotherapy (sirolimus, lorvotuzumab, ipilimumab, nivolumab, or pembrolizumab).    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (MK-1775) and chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent childhood rhabdomyosarcoma. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
					                
					            
        						 
        						
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.       Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biologic therapy or biotherapy.    There are different types of immunotherapy:            -  Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy uses the body's immune system to kill cancer cells. Two types of immune checkpoint inhibitors are being studied in the treatment of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma that has come back after treatment:                  -  CTLA-4 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When CTLA-4 attaches to another protein called B7 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. CTLA-4 inhibitors attach to CTLA-4 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Ipilimumab is a type of CTLA-4 inhibitor.       -  PD-1 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When PD-1 attaches to another protein called PDL-1 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. PD-1 inhibitors attach to PDL-1 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Nivolumab and pembrolizumab are PD-1 inhibitors.                -  Vaccine therapy is a type of immunotherapy being studied to treat metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma.              Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation do. There are different types of targeted therapy:            -  mTOR inhibitors stop the protein that helps cells divide and survive. Sirolimus is a type of mTOR inhibitor therapy being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.     -  Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are small-molecule drugs that go through the cell membrane and work inside cancer cells to block signals that cancer cells need to grow and divide. MK-1775 is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.     -  Antibody-drug conjugates are made up of a monoclonal antibody attached to a drug. The monoclonal antibody binds to specific proteins or receptors found on certain cells, including cancer cells. The drug enters these cells and kills them without harming other cells. Lorvotuzumab mertansine is an antibody-drug conjugate being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
226,What are the treatments for Dry Eye ?,"Self Care - Try over-the-counter remedies such as artificial tears, gels, gel inserts, and ointments. They offer temporary relief and can provide an important replacement of naturally produced tears.   - Avoid remedies containing preservatives if you need to apply them more than four times a day or preparations with chemicals that cause blood vessels to constrict.  - Wearing glasses or sunglasses that fit close to the face (wrap around shades) or that have side shields can help slow tear evaporation from the eye surfaces.   - Indoors, an air cleaner to filter dust and other particles can help your eyes feel more comfortable. A humidifier also may help by adding moisture to the air.  - Avoid dry conditions.  - Allow your eyes to rest when doing activities that require you to use your eyes for long periods of time. Use lubricating eye drops while performing these tasks. Try over-the-counter remedies such as artificial tears, gels, gel inserts, and ointments. They offer temporary relief and can provide an important replacement of naturally produced tears. Avoid remedies containing preservatives if you need to apply them more than four times a day or preparations with chemicals that cause blood vessels to constrict. Wearing glasses or sunglasses that fit close to the face (wrap around shades) or that have side shields can help slow tear evaporation from the eye surfaces. Indoors, an air cleaner to filter dust and other particles can help your eyes feel more comfortable. A humidifier also may help by adding moisture to the air. Avoid dry conditions. Allow your eyes to rest when doing activities that require you to use your eyes for long periods of time. Use lubricating eye drops while performing these tasks. If symptoms of dry eye persist, consult an eye care professional to get an accurate diagnosis of the condition and begin treatment to avoid permanent damage. Goal of Treatment Dry eye can be a temporary or ongoing condition, so treatments can be short term or may extend over long periods of time. The goal of treatment is to keep the eyes moist and relieve symptoms. (This short video discusses causes, symptoms, and treatments for dry eye.)  Talk to your doctor to rule out other conditions that can cause dry eye, such as Sjgren's syndrome. You may need to treat these conditions. If dry eye results from taking a medication, your doctor may recommend switching to a medication that does not cause dry eye as a side effect.  Types of Treatments - Medication. Cyclosporine, an anti-inflammatory medication, is a prescription eye drop available to treat certain kinds of dry eye. In people with certain kinds of dry eye, it may decrease damage to the cornea, increase basic tear production, and reduce symptoms of dry eye. It may take three to six months of twice-a-day dosages for the medication to work. Some patients with severe dry eye may need to use corticosteroid eye drops that decrease inflammation.  - Nutritional Supplements. In some patients with dry eye, supplements of omega-3 fatty acids (especially ones called DHA and EPA) may decrease symptoms of irritation. Talk with your eye care professional or your primary medical doctor about whether this is an option for you.  - Lenses. If dry eye is a result of wearing contact lens for too long, your eye care practitioner may recommend another type of lens or reducing the number of hours you wear your lenses. In the case of severe dry eye, your eye care professional may advise you not to wear contact lenses at all.  - Punctal plugs. Another option to increase the available tears on the eye surface is to plug the small circular openings at the inner corners of the eyelids where tears drain from the eye into the nose. Lacrimal plugs, also called punctal plugs, can be inserted painlessly by an eye care professional. These plugs are made of silicone or collagen. These plugs can be temporary or permanent.  - Punctal cautery.  In some cases, a simple surgery called punctal cautery is recommended to permanently close the drainage holes. The procedure works similarly to installing punctal plugs, but cannot be reversed. Medication. Cyclosporine, an anti-inflammatory medication, is a prescription eye drop available to treat certain kinds of dry eye. In people with certain kinds of dry eye, it may decrease damage to the cornea, increase basic tear production, and reduce symptoms of dry eye. It may take three to six months of twice-a-day dosages for the medication to work. Some patients with severe dry eye may need to use corticosteroid eye drops that decrease inflammation. Nutritional Supplements. In some patients with dry eye, supplements of omega-3 fatty acids (especially ones called DHA and EPA) may decrease symptoms of irritation. Talk with your eye care professional or your primary medical doctor about whether this is an option for you. Lenses. If dry eye is a result of wearing contact lens for too long, your eye care practitioner may recommend another type of lens or reducing the number of hours you wear your lenses. In the case of severe dry eye, your eye care professional may advise you not to wear contact lenses at all. Punctal plugs. Another option to increase the available tears on the eye surface is to plug the small circular openings at the inner corners of the eyelids where tears drain from the eye into the nose. Lacrimal plugs, also called punctal plugs, can be inserted painlessly by an eye care professional. These plugs are made of silicone or collagen. These plugs can be temporary or permanent. Punctal cautery.  In some cases, a simple surgery called punctal cautery is recommended to permanently close the drainage holes. The procedure works similarly to installing punctal plugs, but cannot be reversed."
227,What are the symptoms of Gastroschisis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Gastroschisis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gastroschisis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gastroschisis 90% Abnormality of the mesentery 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
228,What are the symptoms of Trisomy 18 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Trisomy 18? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Trisomy 18. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Atria septal defect 90% Broad forehead 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Cryptorchidism 90% Decreased body weight 90% Deviation of finger 90% Dolichocephaly 90% High forehead 90% Hypertelorism 90% Hypertonia 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Narrow face 90% Narrow mouth 90% Omphalocele 90% Pointed helix 90% Prominent occiput 90% Short nose 90% Short stature 90% Triangular face 90% Underdeveloped supraorbital ridges 90% Ventricular septal defect 90% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 50% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Abnormality of the toenails 50% Abnormality of the upper urinary tract 50% Blepharophimosis 50% Choanal atresia 50% Cleft palate 50% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 50% Delayed skeletal maturation 50% Epicanthus 50% Microcephaly 50% Non-midline cleft lip 50% Oligohydramnios 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Urogenital fistula 50% Webbed neck 50% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Anencephaly 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Arnold-Chiari malformation 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Cyclopia 7.5% Glaucoma 7.5% Holoprosencephaly 7.5% Iris coloboma 7.5% Microcornea 7.5% Postaxial hand polydactyly 7.5% Spina bifida 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
229,what types of infections does vancomycin-resistant enterococci cause?,"On this Page General Information What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What types of infections does vancomycin-resistant enterococci cause? Are certain people at risk of getting vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What is the treatment for vancomycin-resistant enterococci? How is vancomycin-resistant enterococci spread? How can patients prevent the spread of vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What should a patient do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Recommendations and Guidelines General Information For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Enteroccocci are bacteria that are normally present in the human intestines and in the female genital tract and are often found in the environment. These bacteria can sometimes cause infections. Vancomycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat some drug-resistant infections caused by enterococci. In some instances, enterococci have become resistant to this drug and thus are called vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). Most VRE infections occur in hospitals. Top of page What types of infections does VRE cause? VRE can live in the human intestines and female genital tract without causing disease (often called colonization). However, sometimes it can cause infections of the urinary tract, the bloodstream, or of wounds associated with catheters or surgical procedures. Top of page Are certain people at risk of getting VRE? The following persons are at increased risk becoming infected with VRE: People who have been previously treated with the antibiotic vancomycin or other antibiotics for long periods of time. People who are hospitalized, particularly when they receive antibiotic treatment for long periods of time. People with weakened immune systems such as patients in intensive care units, or in cancer or transplant wards. People who have undergone surgical procedures such as abdominal or chest surgery. People with medical devices that stay in for some time such as urinary catheters or central intravenous (IV) catheters. People who are colonized with VRE. Top of page What is the treatment for VRE? People with colonized VRE (bacteria are present, but have no symptoms of an infection)  do not need treatment. Most VRE infections can be treated with antibiotics other than vancomycin. Laboratory testing of the VRE can determine which antibiotics will work. For people who get VRE infections in their bladder and have urinary catheters, removal of the catheter when it is no longer needed can also help get rid of the infection. Top of page How is VRE spread? VRE is often passed from person to person by the contaminated hands of caregivers. VRE can get onto a caregiver's hands after they have contact with other people with VRE or after contact with contaminated surfaces. VRE can also be spread directly to people after they touch surfaces that are contaminated with VRE. VRE is not spread through the air by coughing or sneezing. Top of page How can patients prevent the spread of VRE? If a patient or someone in their household has VRE, the following are some things they can do to prevent the spread of VRE: Keep their hands clean. Always wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom and before preparing food. Clean their hands after contact with persons who have VRE. Wash with soap and water (particularly when visibly soiled) or use alcohol-based hand rubs. Frequently clean areas of the home, such as bathrooms, that may become contaminated with VRE. Wear gloves if hands may come in contact with body fluids that may contain VRE, such as stool or bandages from infected wounds. Always wash their hands after removing gloves. If someone has VRE, be sure to tell healthcare providers so that they are aware of the infection. Healthcare facilities use special precautions to help prevent the spread of VRE to others. Top of page What should patients do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE)? Anyone who thinks they have VRE must talk with their healthcare provider. Top of page Recommendations and Guidelines For more information about prevention and treatment of HAIs, see the resources below: Siegel JD, Rhinehart E, Jackson M, et al. The Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC). Management of Multidrug-Resistant Organisms In Healthcare Settings, 2006"
230,What are the treatments for Pervasive Developmental Disorders ?,There is no known cure for PDD. Medications are used to address specific behavioral problems; therapy for children with PDD should be specialized according to need. Some children with PDD benefit from specialized classrooms in which the class size is small and instruction is given on a one-to-one basis. Others function well in standard special education classes or regular classes with additional support.
231,What is the outlook for Multiple System Atrophy with Orthostatic Hypotension ?,Most individuals with multiple system atrophy with orthostatic hypotension die within 7 to 10 years after the onset of symptoms. A problem with the respiratory system is the most common cause of death.
232,What are the symptoms of Dystonia 19 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dystonia 19? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dystonia 19. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Chorea - Dyskinesia - Dystonia - Paroxysmal dyskinesia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
233,What are the symptoms of Spinal intradural arachnoid cysts ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinal intradural arachnoid cysts? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinal intradural arachnoid cysts. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the vertebral column - Arachnoid cyst - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Paraplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
234,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Salivary Gland Cancer ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiosensitizers     Radiosensitizers are drugs that make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. Combining radiation therapy with radiosensitizers may kill more tumor cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
235,Is Shwachman-Diamond syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
236,What are the treatments for oculodentodigital dysplasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of oculodentodigital dysplasia:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Oculodentodigital dysplasia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Webbing of the fingers or toes  - UC Davis Children's Hospital: Cleft and Craniofacial Reconstruction   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
237,What causes Myhre syndrome ?,"What causes Myhre syndrome? Myhre syndrome is caused by mutations in the SMAD4 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in transmitting chemical signals from the cell surface to the nucleus. This signaling pathway, called the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-) pathway, allows the environment outside the cell to affect how the cell produces other proteins. As part of this pathway, the SMAD4 protein interacts with other proteins to control the activity of particular genes. These genes influence many areas of development. Some researchers believe that the SMAD4 gene mutations that cause Myhre syndrome impair the ability of the SMAD4 protein to attach (bind) properly with the other proteins involved in the signaling pathway. Other studies have suggested that these mutations result in an abnormally stable SMAD4 protein that remains active in the cell longer. Changes in SMAD4 binding or availability may result in abnormal signaling in many cell types, which affects development of several body systems and leads to the signs and symptoms of Myhre syndrome."
238,What are the symptoms of Hunter Rudd Hoffmann syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hunter Rudd Hoffmann syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hunter Rudd Hoffmann syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal dermatoglyphics 90% Abnormality of the distal phalanx of finger 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Craniosynostosis 90% Epicanthus 90% Hypotelorism 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Narrow forehead 90% Prominent metopic ridge 90% Ptosis 90% Short stature 90% Trigonocephaly 90% Underdeveloped supraorbital ridges 90% Wide mouth 90% Wide nasal bridge 90% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% EEG abnormality 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Proptosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Broad secondary alveolar ridge - High palate - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - Lambdoidal craniosynostosis - Low-set ears - Posteriorly rotated ears - Premature posterior fontanelle closure - Sagittal craniosynostosis - Small anterior fontanelle - Small for gestational age - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
239,What are the treatments for Endocarditis ?,"Infective endocarditis (IE) is treated with antibiotics and sometimes with heart surgery.
                
Antibiotics
                
Antibiotics usually are given for 2 to 6 weeks through an intravenous (IV) line inserted into a vein. You're often in a hospital for at least the first week or more of treatment. This allows your doctor to make sure the medicine is helping.
                
If you're allowed to go home before the treatment is done, the antibiotics are almost always continued by vein at home. You'll need special care if you get IV antibiotic treatment at home. Before you leave the hospital, your medical team will arrange for you to receive home-based care so you can continue your treatment.
                
You also will need close medical followup, usually by a team of doctors. This team often includes a doctor who specializes in infectious diseases, a cardiologist (heart specialist), and a heart surgeon.
                
Surgery
                
Sometimes surgery is needed to repair or replace a damaged heart valve or to help clear up IE. For example, IE caused by fungi often requires surgery. This is because this type of IE is harder to treat than IE caused by bacteria."
240,What is (are) Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease ?,"You and your doctor will work together to choose a treatment that's best for you. The publications of the NIDDK Kidney Failure Series can help you learn about the specific issues you will face.
                
Booklets
                
- What I need to know about Kidney Failure and How its Treated  - Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Hemodialysis  - Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis  - Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Kidney Transplantation  - Kidney Failure: Eat Right to Feel Right on Hemodialysis
                
Fact Sheets
                
- Kidney Failure: What to Expect  - Vascular Access for Hemodialysis  - Hemodialysis Dose and Adequacy  - Peritoneal Dialysis Dose and Adequacy  - Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease  - Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease  - Chronic Kidney Disease-Mineral and Bone Disorder  - Financial Help for Treatment of Kidney Failure
                
Learning as much as you can about your treatment will help make you an important member of your health care team.
                

                

                
This content is provided as a service of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), part of the National Institutes of Health. The NIDDK translates and disseminates research findings through its clearinghouses and education programs to increase knowledge and understanding about health and disease among patients, health professionals, and the public. Content produced by the NIDDK is carefully reviewed by NIDDK scientists and other experts.
                
The NIDDK would like to thank: Glenn Chertow, M.D., University of California at San Francisco; William J. Stone, M.D., Vanderbilt University; Morie A. Gertz, M.D., Mayo Clinic
                
This information is not copyrighted. The NIDDK encourages people to share this content freely.
                

                

                
September 2014"
241,What is (are) Denys-Drash syndrome ?,"Denys-Drash syndrome is a condition that affects the kidneys and genitalia.  Denys-Drash syndrome is characterized by kidney disease that begins within the first few months of life. Affected individuals have a condition called diffuse glomerulosclerosis, in which scar tissue forms throughout glomeruli, which are the tiny blood vessels in the kidneys that filter waste from blood. In people with Denys-Drash syndrome, this condition often leads to kidney failure in childhood. People with Denys-Drash syndrome have an estimated 90 percent chance of developing a rare form of kidney cancer known as Wilms tumor. Affected individuals may develop multiple tumors in one or both kidneys.  Although males with Denys-Drash syndrome have the typical male chromosome pattern (46,XY), they have gonadal dysgenesis, in which external genitalia do not look clearly male or clearly female (ambiguous genitalia) or the genitalia appear completely female. The testes of affected males are undescended, which means they are abnormally located in the pelvis, abdomen, or groin. As a result, males with Denys-Drash are typically unable to have biological children (infertile).  Affected females usually have normal genitalia and have only the kidney features of the condition. Because they do not have all the features of the condition, females are usually given the diagnosis of isolated nephrotic syndrome."
242,Is Cushing disease inherited ?,"Most cases of Cushing disease are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Rarely, the condition has been reported to run in families; however, it does not have a clear pattern of inheritance.  The various syndromes that have Cushing disease as a feature can have different inheritance patterns. Most of these disorders are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
243,What are the treatments for mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy disease ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of MNGIE disease:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Mitochondrial Neurogastrointestinal Encephalopathy Disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myoneural gastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Leukoencephalopathy (image)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
244,What are the symptoms of Desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma ?,"What signs and symptoms are associated with desmoplastic infantile gangliomas? Most infants with DIGs do not have seizures; however, they usually have a bulging fontanelle, rapid head growth, sunset sign, and vomiting."
245,Is Neuroblastoma inherited ?,"Neuroblastoma is sometimes caused by a gene mutation (change) passed from the parent to the child. Gene mutations that increase the risk of neuroblastoma are sometimes inherited (passed from the parent to the child). In children with a gene mutation, neuroblastoma usually occurs at a younger age and more than one tumor may form in the adrenal glands."
246,Is Basilar migraine inherited ?,"Are basilar migraines inherited? In most cases, basilar migraines are not inherited. However, the susceptibility to basilar migraines may rarely be caused by a change (mutation) in the ATP1A2 gene or CACNA1A gene. In these cases, they are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a mutation in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with one of these mutations has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child."
247,What are the treatments for ulcerative colitis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of ulcerative colitis:  - American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons  - Cedars-Sinai  - Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America: Colitis Diagnosis and Testing  - Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America: Colitis Treatment Options  - Genetic Testing Registry: Inflammatory bowel disease 1  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Ulcerative Colitis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
248,"What are the symptoms of Hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Stroke 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral aneurysm - Hematuria - Leukoencephalopathy - Muscle cramps - Nephropathy - Renal cyst - Renal insufficiency - Retinal arteriolar tortuosity - Retinal hemorrhage - Supraventricular arrhythmia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
249,What is (are) Fanconi anemia ?,"Fanconi anemia is an inherited condition that affects the bone marrow, resulting in decreased production of all types of blood cells. People with this condition have lower-than-normal numbers of white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets (cells that help the blood clot). Not enough white blood cells can lead to infections; a lack of red blood cells may result in anemia; and a decreased amount of platelets may lead to excess bleeding. Fanconi anemia can be caused by mutations in various genes; it can either be inherited in an autosomal recessive or X-linked recessive fashion."
250,What causes Problems with Taste ?,"Yes. Certain medicines can cause a change in our ability to taste. The medicines that most frequently do this are certain antibiotics and some antihistamines, although other medications can affect our sense of taste as well. If your medicine is causing a problem with your sense of taste, your doctor may be able to adjust or change your medicine. If not, he or she may suggest ways to manage your problem. Do not stop taking your medications unless directed by your doctor. Your doctor will work with you to get the medicine you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects."
251,What is (are) Anxiety Disorders ?,"Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy that is very useful in treating anxiety disorders. It can help people change the thinking patterns that support their fears and change the way they react to anxiety-provoking situations. For example, cognitive behavioral therapy can help people with panic disorder learn that their panic attacks are not really heart attacks and help people with social phobia learn how to overcome the belief that others are always watching and judging them. When people are ready to confront their fears, they are shown how to use exposure techniques to desensitize themselves to situations that trigger their anxieties."
252,What is (are) Parasites - Taeniasis ?,"Taeniasis in humans is a parasitic infection caused by the tapeworm species Taenia saginata (beef tapeworm), Taenia solium (pork tapeworm), and Taenia asiatica (Asian tapeworm). Humans can become infected with these tapeworms by eating raw or undercooked beef (T. saginata) or pork (T. solium and T. asiatica). People with taeniasis may not know they have a tapeworm infection because symptoms are usually mild or nonexistent.

T. solium tapeworm infections can lead to cysticercosis, which is a disease that can cause seizures, so it is important seek treatment."
253,What are the treatments for Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Triglyceride storage disease with ichthyosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Ichthyosis vulgaris   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
254,What are the stages of Adult Central Nervous System Tumors ?,"Key Points
                    - There is no standard staging system for adult brain and spinal cord tumors.    - Imaging tests may be repeated after surgery to help plan more treatment.
                
                
                    There is no standard staging system for adult brain and spinal cord tumors.
                    The extent or spread of cancer is usually described as stages. There is no standard staging system for brain and spinal cord tumors. Brain tumors that begin in the brain may spread to other parts of the brain and spinal cord, but they rarely spread to other parts of the body. Treatment of primary brain and spinal cord tumors is based on the following:         - The type of cell in which the tumor began.    - Where the tumor formed in the brain or spinal cord.    - The amount of cancer left after surgery.    - The grade of the tumor.        Treatment of tumors that have spread to the brain from other parts of the body is based on the number of tumors in the brain.
                
                
                    Imaging tests may be repeated after surgery to help plan more treatment.
                    Some of the tests and procedures used to diagnose a brain or spinal cord tumor may be repeated after treatment to find out how much tumor is left."
255,Is severe congenital neutropenia inherited ?,"Most cases of severe congenital neutropenia are classified as sporadic and occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. Some of these cases are associated with changes in specific genes; however in some cases the cause of the disorder is unknown.  Many cases of severe congenital neutropenia are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Less often, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In rare cases, severe congenital neutropenia is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. In these cases, the gene that causes the condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons."
256,How many people are affected by diastrophic dysplasia ?,"Although the exact incidence of this condition is unknown, researchers estimate that it affects about 1 in 100,000 newborns. Diastrophic dysplasia occurs in all populations but appears to be particularly common in Finland."
257,How to diagnose Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes ?,"Health care providers test for gestational diabetes using the OGTT. Women may be tested during their first visit to the health care provider after becoming pregnant or between 24 to 28 weeks of pregnancy depending on their risk factors and symptoms. Women found to have diabetes at the first visit to the health care provider after becoming pregnant may be diagnosed with type 2 diabetes.
                
Defining Safe Blood Glucose Levels for Pregnancy
                
Many studies have shown that gestational diabetes can cause complications for the mother and baby. An international, multicenter study, the Hyperglycemia and Adverse Pregnancy Outcome (HAPO) study, showed that the higher a pregnant womans blood glucose is, the higher her risk of pregnancy complications. The HAPO researchers found that pregnancy complications can occur at blood glucose levels that were once considered to be normal.
                
Based on the results of the HAPO study, new guidelines for diagnosis of gestational diabetes were recommended by the International Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups in 2011. So far, the new guidelines have been adopted by the American Diabetes Association (ADA)3 but not by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG)4 or other medical organizations. Researchers estimate these new guidelines, if widely adopted, will increase the proportion of pregnant women diagnosed with gestational diabetes to nearly 18 percent.5
                
Both ADA and ACOG guidelines for using the OGTT in diagnosing gestational diabetes are shown in the following tables.
                
Recommendations for Testing Pregnant Women for Diabetes
                
Time of testing    ACOG    ADA        At first visit during pregnancy    No recommendation    Test women with risk factors for diabetes using standard testing for diagnosis of type 2 diabetes.  Women found to have diabetes at this time should be diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, not gestational diabetes.        At 24 to 28 weeks of pregnancy    Test women for diabetes based on their history, risk factors, or a 50-gram, 1-hour, nonfasting, glucose challenge testa modified OGTT.  If score is 130140 mg/dL, test again with fasting, 100-gram, 3-hour OGTT.*    Test all women for diabetes who are not already diagnosed, using a fasting, 75-gram, 2-hour OGTT.*
                

                
OGTT Levels for Diagnosis of Gestational Diabetes
                
Time of Sample Collection    ACOG Levels**,4 (mg/dL)    ADA Levels3(mg/dL)        100-gram Glucose Drink    75-gram Glucose Drink        Fasting, before drinking glucose    95 or above    92 or above        1 hour after drinking glucose    180 or above    180 or above        2 hours after drinking glucose    155 or above    153 or above        3 hours after drinking glucose    140 or above    Not used        Requirements for Diagnosis    TWO or more of the above levels must be met    ONE or more of the above levels must be met
                

                

                

                
More information about treating gestational diabetes is provided in the NIDDK health topic, What I need to know about Gestational Diabetes, or by calling 18008608747."
258,What are the symptoms of Ectrodactyly and ectodermal dysplasia without cleft lip/palate ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ectrodactyly and ectodermal dysplasia without cleft lip/palate? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ectrodactyly and ectodermal dysplasia without cleft lip/palate. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the teeth - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Ectodermal dysplasia - Hypotrichosis - Split foot - Split hand - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
259,How many people are affected by hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer ?,HLRCC has been reported in approximately 100 families worldwide. Its prevalence is unknown.
260,Do you have information about Internet Safety,"Summary : For most kids and teens, technology is an important part of their lives. They browse the Web for information, use social networking sites, text, and chat. But there can also be dangers, and it is important for parents to monitor their children's use and teach them how to be safe online:       - Never give out personal information, such as your full name, address, phone number, or school name    - Tell an adult if any communication (chat, text, e-mail message) makes you feel threatened or uncomfortable    - Never send sexually explicit photographs or messages    - On social networking sites, use privacy controls and only friend people that you know       Of course, some of this advice is good for adults, too."
261,What are the symptoms of Glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glucocorticoid-remediable aldosteronism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the urinary system - Adrenal hyperplasia - Adrenogenital syndrome - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased circulating renin level - Hyperaldosteronism - Hypertension - Onset - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
262,What are the treatments for Orofaciodigital syndrome 2 ?,"What treatment is available for orofaciodigital syndrome type 2? Treatment is dependent on the symptoms. For example, reconstructive surgery might be performed to correct oral, facial, and/or finger and toe abnormalities."
263,Is Meige disease inherited ?,"Meige disease appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder, although no genes have been associated with Meige disease.  People with Meige disease usually have at least one other affected family member. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. When the condition occurs in only one person in a family, the condition is described as Meige-like disease."
264,Do you have information about Financial Assistance,"Summary : Health care can be costly. If you have health insurance, it usually pays at least part of your medical costs. If you don't have insurance or need help with costs that aren't covered, financial assistance might be available. Certain government programs and nonprofit organizations can help. You can also discuss concerns about paying your medical bills with your health care provider, social worker or the business office of your clinic or hospital."
265,What are the genetic changes related to pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 ?,"Mutations in one of four different genes involved in sodium regulation cause autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive PHA1. Mutations in the NR3C2 gene cause autosomal dominant PHA1. This gene provides instructions for making the mineralocorticoid receptor protein. Mutations in the SCNN1A, SCNN1B, or SCNN1G genes cause autosomal recessive PHA1. Each of these three genes provides instructions for making one of the pieces (subunits) of a protein complex called the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC).  The mineralocorticoid receptor regulates specialized proteins in the cell membrane that control the transport of sodium or potassium into cells. In response to signals that sodium levels are low, such as the presence of the hormone aldosterone, the mineralocorticoid receptor increases the number and activity of these proteins at the cell membrane of certain kidney cells. One of these proteins is ENaC, which transports sodium into the cell; another protein simultaneously transports sodium out of the cell and potassium into the cell. These proteins help keep sodium in the body through a process called reabsorption and remove potassium from the body through a process called secretion.  Mutations in the NR3C2 gene lead to a nonfunctional or abnormally functioning mineralocorticoid receptor protein that cannot properly regulate the specialized proteins that transport sodium and potassium. As a result, sodium reabsorption and potassium secretion are both decreased, causing hyponatremia and hyperkalemia.  Mutations in the SCNN1A, SCNN1B, and SCNN1G genes result in reduced functioning or nonfunctioning ENaC channels. As in autosomal dominant PHA1, the reduction or absence of ENaC function in the kidneys leads to hyponatremia and hyperkalemia. In addition, nonfunctional ENaC channels in other body systems lead to additional signs and symptoms of autosomal recessive PHA1, including lung infections and skin lesions."
266,What is (are) Neonatal progeroid syndrome ?,"Neonatal progeroid syndrome is a rare genetic syndrome characterized by an aged appearance at birth. Other signs and symptoms include intrauterine growth restriction, feeding difficulties, distinctive craniofacial features, hypotonia, developmental delay and mild to severe intellectual disability. In most cases, affected infants pass away before age 7 months, but rare reports exist of survival into the teens or early 20s. Although the exact underlying cause of neonatal progeroid syndrome is unknown, it is likely a genetic condition that is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive."
267,Do you have information about Infant and Newborn Nutrition,"Summary : Food provides the energy and nutrients that babies need to be healthy. For a baby, breast milk is best. It has all the necessary vitamins and minerals. Infant formulas are available for babies whose mothers are not able or decide not to breastfeed.    Infants usually start eating solid foods between 4 and 6 months of age. Check with your health care provider for the best time for your baby to start. If you introduce one new food at a time, you will be able to identify any foods that cause allergies in your baby. Some foods to stay away from include       - Eggs    - Honey    - Peanuts (including peanut butter)    - Other tree nuts"
268,How many people are affected by spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation ?,"SPENCDI appears to be a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown."
269,What are the treatments for Deep Brain Stimulation for Parkinson's Disease ?,"Unlike previous surgeries for PD, DBS involves minimal permanent surgical changes to the brain. Instead, the procedure uses electrical stimulation to regulate electrical signals in neural circuits to and from identified areas in the brain to improve PD symptoms. Thus, if DBS causes unwanted side effects or newer, more promising treatments develop in the future, the implantable pulse generator can be removed, and the DBS procedure can be halted. Also, stimulation from the IPG is easily adjustablewithout further surgeryif the persons condition changes. Some people describe the pulse generator adjustments as ""programming."""
270,What is (are) Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ?,"Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a bleeding disorder characterized by too few platelets in the blood. This is because platelets are being destroyed by the immune system. Symptoms may include bruising, nosebleed or bleeding in the mouth, bleeding into the skin, and abnormally heavy menstruation. With treatment, the chance of remission (a symptom-free period) is good. Rarely, ITP may become a chronic ailment in adults and reappear, even after remission."
271,How many people are affected by 17-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3 deficiency ?,"17-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 3 deficiency is a rare disorder. Researchers have estimated that this condition occurs in approximately 1 in 147,000 newborns. It is more common in the Arab population of Gaza, where it affects 1 in 200 to 300 people."
272,What is (are) Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?,"The urinary tract is the bodys drainage system for removing wastes and extra water. The urinary tract includes two kidneys, two ureters, a bladder, and a urethra. The kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist and located below the ribs, one on each side of the spine, toward the middle of the back. Every minute, a persons kidneys filter about 3 ounces of blood, removing wastes and extra water. The wastes and extra water make up the 1 to 2 quarts of urine an adult produces each day. Children produce less urine each day; the amount produced depends on their age. The urine travels from the kidneys down two narrow tubes called the ureters. The urine is then stored in a balloonlike organ called the bladder. Routinely, urine drains in only one directionfrom the kidneys to the bladder. The bladder fills with urine until it is full enough to signal the need to urinate. In children, the bladder can hold about 2 ounces of urine plus 1 ounce for each year of age. For example, an 8-year-olds bladder can hold about 10 ounces of urine.
                
When the bladder empties, a muscle called the sphincter relaxes and urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra at the bottom of the bladder. The opening of the urethra is at the end of the penis in boys and in front of the vagina in girls."
273,What are the treatments for Glossopharyngeal Neuralgia ?,"Most doctors will attempt to treat the pain first with drugs. Some individuals respond well to anticonvulsant drugs, such as carbamazepine and gabapentin. Surgical options, including nerve resection, tractotomy, or microvascular decompression, should be considered when individuals either dont respond to, or stop responding to, drug therapy. Surgery is usually successful at ending the cycles of pain, although there may be some sensory loss in the mouth, throat, or tongue."
274,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tethered Spinal Cord Syndrome ?,"The NINDS conducts and supports research on disorders of the spinal cord. The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these disorders."
275,Is optic atrophy type 1 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
276,What is (are) familial male-limited precocious puberty ?,"Familial male-limited precocious puberty is a condition that causes early sexual development in males; females are not affected. Boys with this disorder begin exhibiting the signs of puberty in early childhood, between the ages of 2 and 5. Signs of male puberty include a deepening voice, acne, increased body hair, underarm odor, growth of the penis and testes, and spontaneous erections. Changes in behavior, such as increased aggression and early interest in sex, may also occur. Without treatment, affected boys grow quickly at first, but they stop growing earlier than usual. As a result, they tend to be shorter in adulthood compared with other members of their family."
277,What are the symptoms of Congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acanthosis nigricans - Accelerated skeletal maturation - Acute pancreatitis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cirrhosis - Clitoromegaly - Cystic angiomatosis of bone - Decreased serum leptin - Generalized muscular appearance from birth - Hepatic steatosis - Hepatomegaly - Hirsutism - Hyperinsulinemia - Hypertriglyceridemia - Insulin-resistant diabetes mellitus at puberty - Labial hypertrophy - Large hands - Lipodystrophy - Long foot - Mandibular prognathia - Nearly complete absence of metabolically active adipose tissue (subcutaneous, intraabdominal, intrathoracic) - Polycystic ovaries - Polyphagia - Prominent umbilicus - Splenomegaly - Tall stature - Umbilical hernia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
278,What is (are) Hypophosphatemic rickets ?,"Hypophosphatemic rickets (previously called vitamin D-resistant rickets) is a disorder in which the bones become painfully soft and bend easily, due to low levels of phosphate in the blood. Symptoms usually begin in early childhood and can range in severity. Severe forms may cause bowing of the legs and other bone deformities; bone pain; joint pain; poor bone growth; and short stature. In some affected babies, the space between the skull bones closes too soon (craniosynostosis). This sometimes results in developmental abnormalities. Hypophosphatemic rickets is almost always inherited and may be caused by changes (mutations) in any of several genes. Most commonly it is due to the PHEX gene and inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Less commonly it is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner (often called Dent disease); autosomal dominant manner; or autosomal recessive manner. Treatment involves taking phosphate and calcitriol in order to raise phosphate levels in the blood and promote normal bone formation."
279,Is Erdheim-Chester disease inherited ?,This condition is not inherited. It arises from a somatic mutation in histiocytes or their precursor cells during an individual's lifetime.
280,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Nasopharyngeal Cancer ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
281,What is (are) Burns ?,"A burn is damage to your body's tissues caused by heat, chemicals, electricity, sunlight or radiation. Scalds from hot liquids and steam, building fires and flammable liquids and gases are the most common causes of burns. Another kind is an inhalation injury, caused by breathing smoke.    There are three types of burns:       -  First-degree burns damage only the outer layer of skin     -  Second-degree burns damage the outer layer and the layer underneath    -  Third-degree burns damage or destroy the deepest layer of skin and tissues underneath       Burns can cause swelling, blistering, scarring and, in serious cases, shock and even death. They also can lead to infections because they damage your skin's protective barrier. Treatment for burns depends on the cause of the burn, how deep it is, and how much of the body it covers. Antibiotic creams can prevent or treat infections. For more serious burns, treatment may be needed to clean the wound, replace the skin, and make sure the patient has enough fluids and nutrition.    NIH: National Institute of General Medical Sciences"
282,What are the treatments for Baraitser-Winter syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Baraitser-Winter syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Baraitser-Winter Cerebrofrontofacial Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Baraitser-Winter Syndrome 2   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
283,Is Peutz-Jeghers syndrome inherited ?,"Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing noncancerous polyps and cancerous tumors. In about half of all cases, an affected person inherits a mutation in the STK11 gene from one affected parent. The remaining cases occur in people with no history of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome in their family. These cases appear to result from new (de novo) mutations in the STK11 gene."
284,Is 9q22.3 microdeletion inherited ?,"9q22.3 microdeletions are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that missing genetic material from one of the two copies of chromosome 9 in each cell is sufficient to cause delayed development, intellectual disability, and the features of Gorlin syndrome.  A 9q22.3 microdeletion most often occurs in people whose parents do not carry the chromosomal change. In these cases, the deletion occurs as a random (de novo) event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent or in early embryonic development. De novo chromosomal changes occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, individuals with a 9q22.3 microdeletion inherit the chromosomal change from an unaffected parent. In these cases, the parent carries a chromosomal rearrangement called a balanced translocation, in which a segment of chromosome 9 has traded places with a segment of another chromosome. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. People who inherit a 9q22.3 microdeletion receive an unbalanced translocation that deletes genetic material from one copy of the q22.3 region of chromosome 9 in each cell.  Having one missing copy of the PTCH1 gene in each cell is enough to cause the features of Gorlin syndrome that are present early in life, including macrocephaly and skeletal abnormalities. For basal cell carcinomas and other tumors to develop, a mutation in the other copy of the PTCH1 gene must also occur in certain cells during the person's lifetime. Most people who are born with one missing copy of the PTCH1 gene eventually acquire a mutation in the other copy of the gene in some cells and consequently develop various types of tumors."
285,What are the treatments for Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma ?,How might Unna-Thost palmoplantar keratoderma be treated? The following treatments can help to soften the thickened skin and make it less noticeable:  Emollients  Keratolytics (such as salicylic acid in propylene glycol) Topical retinoids Topical vitamin D ointment (calcipotriol) Systemic retinoids (acitretin) Antifungal medication may help if the condition occurs along with a fungal infection.
286,What are the symptoms of Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acrocyanosis 90% Autoimmunity 90% Dry skin 90% Pulmonary infiltrates 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Arthralgia 50% Arthritis 50% Carious teeth 50% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Flexion contracture 50% Malabsorption 50% Muscle weakness 50% Osteolysis 50% Pulmonary fibrosis 50% Skin ulcer 50% Telangiectasia of the skin 50% Xerostomia 50% Chondrocalcinosis 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Hypertensive crisis 7.5% Nausea and vomiting 7.5% Pulmonary hypertension 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
287,What are the symptoms of VACTERL association ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of VACTERL association? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for VACTERL association. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 90% Polyhydramnios 90% Premature birth 90% Tracheal stenosis 90% Tracheoesophageal fistula 90% Urogenital fistula 90% Abnormal localization of kidney 50% Abnormality of the cardiac septa 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 50% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 50% Laryngomalacia 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 50% Vertebral segmentation defect 50% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 7.5% Abnormality of the gallbladder 7.5% Abnormality of the intervertebral disk 7.5% Abnormality of the pancreas 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Abnormality of the sacrum 7.5% Anencephaly 7.5% Bifid scrotum 7.5% Cavernous hemangioma 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Encephalocele 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Intrauterine growth retardation 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Non-midline cleft lip 7.5% Omphalocele 7.5% Preaxial hand polydactyly 7.5% Single umbilical artery 7.5% Abnormality of the nasopharynx - Abnormality of the sternum - Absent radius - Anal atresia - Choanal atresia - Ectopic kidney - Esophageal atresia - Failure to thrive - Hydronephrosis - Hypoplasia of the radius - Hypospadias - Large fontanelles - Laryngeal stenosis - Occipital encephalocele - Patent ductus arteriosus - Patent urachus - Postnatal growth retardation - Radioulnar synostosis - Renal agenesis - Renal dysplasia - Scoliosis - Short thumb - Spina bifida - Sporadic - Syndactyly - Tethered cord - Tetralogy of Fallot - Transposition of the great arteries - Triphalangeal thumb - Ureteropelvic junction obstruction - Ventricular septal defect - Vesicoureteral reflux - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
288,What are the treatments for pulmonary veno-occlusive disease ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of pulmonary veno-occlusive disease:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
289,What are the treatments for Fowler's syndrome ?,"How might Fowlers syndrome be treated? The urinary incontinence caused by Fowlers syndrome may be treated by sacral neuromodulation therapy. The success rate for treatment of Fowlers syndrome with neuromodulation has been estimated to be around 70%, even in women who have been experiencing symptoms for a while. Neuromodulation therapy involves the stimulation of nerves to the bladder leaving the spine. The FDA has approved a device called InterStim for this purpose. Your doctor will need to test to determine if this device would be helpful to you. The doctor applies an external stimulator to determine if neuromodulation works in you. If you have a 50 percent reduction in symptoms, a surgeon will implant the device. Although neuromodulation can be effective, it is not for everyone. The therapy is expensive, involving surgery with possible surgical revisions and replacement. Other treatments that have been tried with little success include hormonal manipulation, pharmacologic therapy, and injections of botulinum toxin."
290,What are the treatments for Parry-Romberg ?,There is no cure and there are no treatments that can stop the progression of Parry-Romberg syndrome. Reconstructive or microvascular surgery may be needed to repair wasted tissue. The timing of surgical intervention is generally agreed to be the best following exhaustion of the disease course and completion of facial growth. Most surgeons will recommend a waiting period of one or two years before proceeding with reconstruction. Muscle or bone grafts may also be helpful. Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
291,Is Abdominal aortic aneurysm inherited ?,"Is abdominal aortic aneurysm inherited? Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is thought to be a multifactorial condition, meaning that one or more genes likely interact with environmental factors to cause the condition. In some cases, it may occur as part of an inherited syndrome. Having a family history of AAA increases the risk of developing the condition. A genetic predisposition has been suspected since the first report of three brothers who had a ruptured AAA, and additional families with multiple affected relatives have been reported. In some cases, it may be referred to as "" familial abdominal aortic aneurysm."" A Swedish survey reported that the relative risk of developing AAA for a first-degree relative of a person with AAA was approximately double that of a person with no family history of AAA. In another study, having a family history increased the risk of having an aneurysm 4.3-fold. The highest risk was among brothers older than age 60, in whom the prevalence was 18%. While specific variations in DNA (polymorphisms) are known or suspected to increase the risk for AAA, no one gene is known to cause isolated AAA. It can occur with some inherited disorders that are caused by mutations in a single gene, such as Marfan syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, vascular type. However, these more typically involve the thoracoabdominal aorta. Because the inheritance of AAA is complex, it is not possible to predict whether a specific person will develop AAA. People interested in learning more about the genetics of AAA, and how their family history affects risks to specific family members, should speak with a genetics professional."
292,What is (are) Congenital anosmia ?,"Congenital anosmia is a very rare condition in which people are born with a lifelong inability to smell. It may occur as an isolated abnormality (no additional symptoms) or be associated with a specific genetic disorder (such as Kallmann syndrome and congenital insensitivity to pain). Scientists suspect that isolated congenital anosmia occurs due to abnormal development of the olfactory system (the sensory system used for sense of smell) prior to birth. This may include abnormalities of the nasal cavity, disruptions in the pathway that carries information from the nose to the brain, and/or malformations of the portion of the brain that processes sense of smell. Unfortunately, there is currently no known cure or treatment for congenital anosmia."
293,What is (are) Chest Pain ?,"Having a pain in your chest can be scary. It does not always mean that you are having a heart attack. There can be many other causes, including       - Other heart problems, such as angina    - Panic attacks    - Digestive problems, such as heartburn or esophagus disorders    - Sore muscles    - Lung diseases, such as pneumonia, pleurisy, or pulmonary embolism    - Costochondritis - an inflammation of joints in your chest       Some of these problems can be serious. Get immediate medical care if you have chest pain that does not go away, crushing pain or pressure in the chest, or chest pain along with nausea, sweating, dizziness or shortness of breath. Treatment depends on the cause of the pain."
294,What are the treatments for 3MC syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of 3MC syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Carnevale syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Craniofacial-ulnar-renal syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Malpuech facial clefting syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Michels syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
295,What is (are) Prader-Willi syndrome ?,"Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genetic condition that affects many parts of the body. Infants with PWS have severe hypotonia (low muscle tone), feeding difficulties, and slow growth. In later infancy or early childhood, affected children typically begin to eat excessively and become obese. Other signs and symptoms often include short stature, hypogonadism, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, and distinctive behavioral characteristics such as temper tantrums, stubbornness, and obsessive-compulsive tendencies. PWS is caused by missing or non-working genes on chromosome 15. Most cases are not inherited and occur randomly. Rarely, a genetic change responsible for PWS can be inherited. Management of PWS generally depends on the affected person's age and symptoms."
296,What is (are) Thyroid Cancer ?,"Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your collarbone. It makes hormones that help the body work normally. There are several types of cancer of the thyroid gland. You are at greater risk if you       - Are between ages 25 and 65    - Are a woman    - Are Asian    - Have a family member who has had thyroid disease    - Have had radiation treatments to your head or neck       You should see a doctor if you have a lump or swelling in your neck. Doctors use a physical exam, blood tests, imaging tests, and a biopsy to diagnose thyroid cancer. Treatment depends on the type of cancer you have and how far the cancer has spread. Many patients receive a combination of treatments. They may include surgery, radioactive iodine, hormone treatment, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses substances that attack cancer cells without harming normal cells.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
297,How to prevent Alagille Syndrome ?,"Scientists have not yet found a way to prevent Alagille syndrome. However, complications of the disorder can be managed with the help of health care providers. Routine visits with a health care team are needed to prevent complications from becoming worse."
298,What is (are) hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome ?,"Hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome is a condition characterized by overactivity of the parathyroid glands (hyperparathyroidism). The four parathyroid glands are located in the neck and secrete a hormone that regulates the body's use of calcium. Hyperparathyroidism disrupts the normal balance of calcium in the blood, which can lead to kidney stones, thinning of the bones (osteoporosis), nausea, vomiting, high blood pressure (hypertension), weakness, and fatigue.  In people with hyperthyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome, hyperparathyroidism is caused by tumors that form in the parathyroid glands. Typically only one of the four parathyroid glands is affected, but in some people, tumors are found in more than one gland. The tumors are usually noncancerous (benign), in which case they are called adenomas. Approximately 15 percent of people with hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome develop a cancerous tumor called parathyroid carcinoma. People with hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome may also have a type of benign tumor called a fibroma in the jaw. Even though jaw tumors are specified in the name of this condition, it is estimated that only 25 to 50 percent of affected individuals have this symptom.  Other tumors, both benign and cancerous, are often seen in hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome. For example, tumors of the uterus occur in about 75 percent of women with this condition. The kidneys are affected in about 20 percent of people with hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome. Benign kidney cysts are the most common kidney feature, but a rare tumor called Wilms tumor and other types of kidney tumor have also been found."
299,What are the genetic changes related to infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis ?,"Infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis is caused by mutations in the ALS2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making the alsin protein. Alsin is produced in a wide range of tissues, with highest amounts in the brain, particularly in motor neurons. Alsin turns on (activates) multiple proteins called GTPases that convert a molecule called GTP into another molecule called GDP. GTPases play important roles in several cell processes. The GTPases that are activated by alsin are involved in the proper placement of the various proteins and fats that make up the cell membrane, the transport of molecules from the cell membrane to the interior of the cell (endocytosis), and the development of specialized structures called axons and dendrites that project from neurons and are essential for the transmission of nerve impulses.  Mutations in the ALS2 gene alter the instructions for making alsin, often resulting in the production of an abnormally short alsin protein that is unstable and rapidly broken down. It is unclear exactly how ALS2 gene mutations cause infantile-onset ascending hereditary spastic paralysis. Research suggests that a lack of alsin and the subsequent loss of GTPase functions, such as endocytosis and the development of axons and dendrites, contribute to the progressive atrophy of motor neurons that is characteristic of this condition."
300,Is Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis inherited ?,"Is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) inherited? About 90-95% percent of cases of ALS are not inherited and occur in individuals with no history of the condition in their family. The remaining 5-10% of cases are familial, and are thought to be caused by mutations in any one of several genes. The inheritance pattern associated with familial ALS varies depending on the disease-causing gene involved. Most familial cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that only one altered (mutated) copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In most of these cases, an affected individual has one parent with the condition. When an individual with an autosomal dominant form of ALS has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherited the mutated copy of the gene and be affected. Less frequently, ALS is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In autosomal recessive inheritance, both copies of the disease-causing gene (typically one copy inherited from each parent) must have a mutation for the individual to be affected. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition, who presumably each carry one mutated copy of the gene, are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers for the same condition are having children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% risk to not have the condition and not be a carrier. Autosomal recessive forms of ALS may be mistaken for non-inherited (sporadic) forms due to having a negative family history of the condition. In rare cases, ALS is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This occurs when the disease-causing gene is located on the X chromosome (a sex chromosome). Although females have 2 X chromosomes, having a mutation in one X chromosome is still sufficient to cause the condition. Males who have a mutation (and only one X chromosome) will have the condition. Usually, males with an X-linked dominant form of ALS experience more severe symptoms than females with the same form. Some individuals who do inherit a mutation known to cause ALS never develop signs and symptoms of ALS, although the reason for this is unclear. This phenomenon is referred to as reduced penetrance."
301,How many people are affected by alveolar capillary dysplasia with misalignment of pulmonary veins ?,ACD/MPV is a rare disorder; its incidence is unknown. Approximately 200 infants with this disorder have been identified worldwide.
302,What is the outlook for Gallbladder Cancer ?,"Certain factors affect the prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:          - The stage of the cancer (whether the cancer has spread from the gallbladder to other places in the body).    - Whether the cancer can be completely removed by surgery.    - The type of gallbladder cancer (how the cancer cell looks under a microscope).    - Whether the cancer has just been diagnosed or has recurred (come back).        Treatment may also depend on the age and general health of the patient and whether the cancer is causing signs or symptoms.   Gallbladder cancer can be cured only if it is found before it has spread, when it can be removed by surgery. If the cancer has spread, palliative treatment can improve the patient's quality of life by controlling the symptoms and complications of this disease.   Taking part in one of the clinical trials being done to improve treatment should be considered. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
303,What are the symptoms of Mevalonic aciduria ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Mevalonic aciduria? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mevalonic aciduria. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cerebral cortical atrophy 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Dolichocephaly 90% Microcephaly 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Seizures 90% Short stature 90% Splenomegaly 90% Triangular face 90% Blue sclerae 50% Cataract 50% Incoordination 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Kyphoscoliosis 5% Aciduria - Agenesis of cerebellar vermis - Arthralgia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral atrophy - Diarrhea - Edema - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Failure to thrive - Fluctuating hepatomegaly - Fluctuating splenomegaly - Large fontanelles - Leukocytosis - Low-set ears - Lymphadenopathy - Morbilliform rash - Normocytic hypoplastic anemia - Nystagmus - Posteriorly rotated ears - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Skin rash - Thrombocytopenia - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
304,How many people are affected by Pompe disease ?,"Pompe disease affects about 1 in 40,000 people in the United States. The incidence of this disorder varies among different ethnic groups."
305,How many people are affected by X-linked thrombocytopenia ?,The estimated incidence of X-linked thrombocytopenia is between 1 and 10 per million males worldwide; this condition is rarer among females.
306,What are the treatments for phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of phosphoglycerate kinase deficiency:  - Children Living with Inherited Metabolic Diseases (CLIMB) (UK): Phosphoglycerate Kinase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Deficiency of phosphoglycerate kinase  - Genetic Testing Registry: Phosphoglycerate kinase 1 deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
307,What is (are) Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease ?,"Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is a group of progressive disorders that affect the peripheral nerves. Peripheral nerves connect the brain and spinal cord to muscles and to sensory cells that detect sensations such as touch, pain, heat, and sound. Damage to the peripheral nerves can result in loss of sensation and wasting (atrophy) of muscles in the feet, legs, and hands.  Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease usually becomes apparent in adolescence or early adulthood, but onset may occur anytime from early childhood through late adulthood. Symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease vary in severity, even among members of the same family. Some people never realize they have the disorder, but most have a moderate amount of physical disability. A small percentage of people experience severe weakness or other problems which, in rare cases, can be life-threatening. In most affected individuals, however, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease does not affect life expectancy.  Typically, the earliest symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease involve balance difficulties, clumsiness, and muscle weakness in the feet. Affected individuals may have foot abnormalities such as high arches (pes cavus), flat feet (pes planus), or curled toes (hammer toes). They often have difficulty flexing the foot or walking on the heel of the foot. These difficulties may cause a higher than normal step (or gait) and increase the risk of ankle injuries and tripping.  As the disease progresses, muscles in the lower legs usually weaken, but leg and foot problems rarely require the use of a wheelchair. Affected individuals may also develop weakness in the hands, causing difficulty with daily activities such as writing, fastening buttons, and turning doorknobs. People with this disorder typically experience a decreased sensitivity to touch, heat, and cold in the feet and lower legs, but occasionally feel aching or burning sensations. In some cases, affected individuals experience gradual hearing loss, deafness, or loss of vision.  There are several types of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Type 1 Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT1) is characterized by abnormalities in myelin, the fatty substance that covers nerve cells, protecting them and helping to conduct nerve impulses. These abnormalities slow the transmission of nerve impulses. Type 2 Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT2) is characterized by abnormalities in the fiber, or axon, that extends from a nerve cell body and transmits nerve impulses. These abnormalities reduce the strength of the nerve impulse. Type 4 Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT4) affects either the axon or myelin and is distinguished from the other types by its pattern of inheritance. In intermediate forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, the nerve impulses are both slowed and reduced in strength, probably due to abnormalities in both axons and myelin. Type X Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMTX) is caused by mutations in a gene on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. Within the various types of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, subtypes (such as CMT1A, CMT1B, CMT2A, CMT4A, and CMTX1) are distinguished by the specific gene that is altered.  Sometimes other, more historical names are used to describe this disorder. For example, Roussy-Levy syndrome is a form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease defined by the additional feature of rhythmic shaking (tremors). Dejerine-Sottas syndrome is a term sometimes used to describe a severe, early childhood form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease; it is also sometimes called Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 3 (CMT3). Depending on the specific gene that is altered, this severe, early onset form of the disorder may also be classified as CMT1 or CMT4. CMTX5 is also known as Rosenberg-Chutorian syndrome. Some researchers believe that this condition is not actually a form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Instead, they classify it as a separate disorder characterized by peripheral nerve problems, deafness, and vision loss."
308,Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?,"Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors may increase the risk of prostate cancer:
                    Age      Prostate cancer is rare in men younger than 50 years of age. The chance of developing prostate cancer increases as men get older.       Family history of prostate cancer     A man whose father, brother, or son has had prostate cancer has a higher-than-average risk of prostate cancer.       Race     Prostate cancer occurs more often in African-American men than in white men. African-American men with prostate cancer are more likely to die from the disease than white men with prostate cancer.       Hormones    The prostate needs male hormones to work the way it should. The main male sex hormone is testosterone. Testosterone helps the body develop and maintain male sex characteristics.    Testosterone is changed into dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by an enzyme in the body. DHT is important for normal prostate growth but can also cause the prostate to get bigger and may play a part in the development of prostate cancer.       Vitamin E    The Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT) found that vitamin E taken alone increased the risk of prostate cancer. The risk continued even after the men stopped taking vitamin E.       Folic acid    Folate is a kind of vitamin B that occurs naturally in some foods, such as green vegetables, beans and orange juice. Folic acid is a man-made form of folate that is found in vitamin supplements and fortified foods, such as whole-grain breads and cereals. A 10-year study showed that the risk of prostate cancer was increased in men who took 1 milligram (mg) supplements of folic acid. However, the risk of prostate cancer was lower in men who had enough folate in their diets.       Dairy and calcium    A diet high in dairy foods and calcium may cause a small increase in the risk of prostate cancer.
                
                
                    The following protective factors may decrease the risk of prostate cancer:
                    Folate    Folate is a kind of vitamin B that occurs naturally in some foods, such as green vegetables, beans and orange juice. Folic acid is a man-made form of folate that is found in vitamin supplements and fortified foods, such as whole-grain breads and cereals. A 10-year study showed that the risk of prostate cancer was lower in men who had enough folate in their diets. However, the risk of prostate cancer was increased in men who took 1 milligram (mg) supplements of folic acid.       Finasteride and Dutasteride     Finasteride and dutasteride are drugs used to lower the amount of male sex hormones made by the body. These drugs block the enzyme that changes testosterone into dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Higher than normal levels of DHT may play a part in developing prostate cancer. Taking finasteride or dutasteride has been shown to lower the risk for prostate cancer, but it is not known if these drugs lower the risk of death from prostate cancer.    The Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) studied whether the drug finasteride can prevent prostate cancer in healthy men 55 years of age and older. This prevention study showed there were fewer prostate cancers in the group of men that took finasteride compared with the group of men that did not. Also, the men who took finasteride who did have prostate cancer had more aggressive tumors. The number of deaths from prostate cancer was the same in both groups. Men who took finasteride reported more side effects compared with the group of men that did not, including erectile dysfunction, loss of desire for sex, and enlarged breasts.    The Reduction by Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer Events Trial (REDUCE) studied whether the drug dutasteride can prevent prostate cancer in men aged 50 to 75 years at higher risk for the disease. This prevention study showed there were fewer prostate cancers in the group of men who took dutasteride compared with the group of men that did not. The number of less aggressive prostate cancers was lower, but the number of more aggressive prostate cancers was not. Men who took dutasteride reported more side effects than men who did not, including erectile dysfunction, loss of desire for sex, less semen, and gynecomastia (enlarged breasts).
                
                
                    The following have been proven not to affect the risk of prostate cancer, or their effects on prostate cancer risk are not known:
                    Selenium and vitamin E    The Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT) studied whether taking vitamin E and selenium (a mineral) will prevent prostate cancer. The selenium and vitamin E were taken separately or together by healthy men 55 years of age and older (50 years of age and older for African-American men). The study showed that taking selenium alone or selenium and vitamin E together did not decrease the risk of prostate cancer.       Diet    It is not known if decreasing fat or increasing fruits and vegetables in the diet helps decrease the risk of prostate cancer or death from prostate cancer. In the PCPT trial, certain fatty acids increased the risk of high-grade prostate cancer while others decreased the risk of high-grade prostate cancer.       Multivitamins    Regular use of multivitamins has not been proven to increase the risk of early or localized prostate cancer. However, a large study showed an increased risk of advanced prostate cancer among men who took multivitamins more than seven times a week.       Lycopene    Some studies have shown that a diet high in lycopene may be linked to a decreased risk of prostate cancer, but other studies have not. It has not been proven that taking lycopene supplements decreases the risk of prostate cancer."
309,What are the symptoms of Penttinen-Aula syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Penttinen-Aula syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Penttinen-Aula syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Scoliosis 5% Wormian bones 5% Brachydactyly syndrome - Delayed cranial suture closure - Delayed eruption of teeth - Delayed skeletal maturation - Growth abnormality - Hyperkeratosis - Hypermetropia - Hypoplasia of midface - Lipoatrophy - Narrow nose - Osteolytic defects of the phalanges of the hand - Osteopenia - Proptosis - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Slender long bone - Sparse hair - Thin calvarium - Thin vermilion border - Thyroid-stimulating hormone excess - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
310,What are the treatments for familial hemiplegic migraine ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of familial hemiplegic migraine:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Familial Hemiplegic Migraine  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial hemiplegic migraine  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial hemiplegic migraine type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial hemiplegic migraine type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial hemiplegic migraine type 3   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
311,What are the genetic changes related to adenosine deaminase deficiency ?,"Adenosine deaminase deficiency is caused by mutations in the ADA gene. This gene provides instructions for producing the enzyme adenosine deaminase. This enzyme is found throughout the body but is most active in specialized white blood cells called lymphocytes. These cells protect the body against potentially harmful invaders, such as bacteria and viruses, by making immune proteins called antibodies or by directly attacking infected cells. Lymphocytes are produced in specialized lymphoid tissues including the thymus, which is a gland located behind the breastbone, and lymph nodes, which are found throughout the body. Lymphocytes in the blood and in lymphoid tissues make up the immune system.  The function of the adenosine deaminase enzyme is to eliminate a molecule called deoxyadenosine, which is generated when DNA is broken down. Adenosine deaminase converts deoxyadenosine, which can be toxic to lymphocytes, to another molecule called deoxyinosine that is not harmful. Mutations in the ADA gene reduce or eliminate the activity of adenosine deaminase and allow the buildup of deoxyadenosine to levels that are toxic to lymphocytes.  Immature lymphocytes in the thymus are particularly vulnerable to a toxic buildup of deoxyadenosine. These cells die before they can mature to help fight infection. The number of lymphocytes in other lymphoid tissues is also greatly reduced. The loss of infection-fighting cells results in the signs and symptoms of SCID."
312,Is Fryns syndrome inherited ?,"Fryns syndrome appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. However, no associated gene has been identified. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the altered gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
313,What are the symptoms of Hendra Virus Disease (HeV) ?,"After an incubation of 9-16 days, infection with Hendra virus can lead to respiratory illness with severe flu-like signs and symptoms. In some cases, illness may progress to encephalitis. 
                
Although infection with Hendra virus is rare, the case fatality is high: 4/7 (57%)."
314,What are the symptoms of Macrocephaly mesodermal hamartoma spectrum ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Macrocephaly mesodermal hamartoma spectrum? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Macrocephaly mesodermal hamartoma spectrum. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Arteriovenous malformation 90% Asymmetry of the thorax 90% Decreased body weight 90% Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Kyphosis 90% Lower limb asymmetry 90% Lymphangioma 90% Macrodactyly of finger 90% Melanocytic nevus 90% Multiple lipomas 90% Scoliosis 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Tall stature 90% Bronchogenic cyst 50% Cafe-au-lait spot 50% Dolichocephaly 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Hyperkeratosis 50% Hypertelorism 50% Lymphedema 50% Macrocephaly 50% Pulmonary embolism 50% Visceral angiomatosis 50% Abnormality of dental enamel 7.5% Abnormality of immune system physiology 7.5% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 7.5% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Abnormality of the nail 7.5% Abnormality of the neck 7.5% Abnormality of the wrist 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Arterial thrombosis 7.5% Atresia of the external auditory canal 7.5% Buphthalmos 7.5% Carious teeth 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Chorioretinal coloboma 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Conjunctival hamartoma 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Exostoses 7.5% Generalized hyperpigmentation 7.5% Hallux valgus 7.5% Heterochromia iridis 7.5% Hypertrichosis 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Long face 7.5% Long penis 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macroorchidism 7.5% Meningioma 7.5% Myopathy 7.5% Myopia 7.5% Neoplasm of the lung 7.5% Neoplasm of the thymus 7.5% Ovarian neoplasm 7.5% Polycystic ovaries 7.5% Proptosis 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Reduced number of teeth 7.5% Renal cyst 7.5% Retinal detachment 7.5% Retinal hamartoma 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Sirenomelia 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Testicular neoplasm 7.5% Thymus hyperplasia 7.5% Calvarial hyperostosis - Deep venous thrombosis - Depigmentation/hyperpigmentation of skin - Epibulbar dermoid - Facial hyperostosis - Hemangioma - Hemihypertrophy - Hypertrophy of skin of soles - Intellectual disability, moderate - Kyphoscoliosis - Lipoma - Mandibular hyperostosis - Nevus - Open mouth - Spinal canal stenosis - Spinal cord compression - Sporadic - Thin bony cortex - Venous malformation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
315,What is (are) Freeman-Sheldon syndrome ?,"Freeman-Sheldon syndrome is a condition that primarily affects the face, hands, and feet. People with this disorder have a distinctive facial appearance including a small mouth (microstomia) with pursed lips, giving the appearance of a ""whistling face."" For this reason, the condition is sometimes called ""whistling face syndrome.""  People with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome may also have a prominent forehead and brow ridges, a sunken appearance of the middle of the face (midface hypoplasia), a short nose, a long area between the nose and mouth (philtrum), deep folds in the skin between the nose and lips (nasolabial folds), full cheeks, and a chin dimple shaped like an ""H"" or ""V"".  Affected individuals may have a number of abnormalities that affect the eyes. These may include widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), deep-set eyes, outside corners of the eyes that point downward (down-slanting palpebral fissures), a narrowing of the eye opening (blepharophimosis), droopy eyelids (ptosis), and eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus).  Other facial features that may occur in Freeman-Sheldon syndrome include an unusually small tongue (microglossia) and jaw (micrognathia) and a high arch in the roof of the mouth (high-arched palate). People with this disorder may have difficulty swallowing (dysphagia), a failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive), and respiratory complications that may be life-threatening. Speech problems are also common in this disorder. Some affected individuals have hearing loss.  Freeman-Sheldon syndrome is also characterized by joint deformities (contractures) that restrict movement. People with this disorder typically have multiple contractures in the hands and feet at birth (distal arthrogryposis). These contractures lead to permanently bent fingers and toes (camptodactyly), a hand deformity in which all of the fingers are angled outward toward the fifth finger (ulnar deviation, also called ""windmill vane hand""), and inward- and downward-turning feet (clubfoot). Affected individuals may also have a spine that curves to the side (scoliosis).  People with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome also have an increased risk of developing a severe reaction to certain drugs used during surgery and other invasive procedures. This reaction is called malignant hyperthermia. Malignant hyperthermia occurs in response to some anesthetic gases, which are used to block the sensation of pain. A particular type of muscle relaxant may also trigger the reaction. If given these drugs, people at risk for malignant hyperthermia may experience muscle rigidity, breakdown of muscle fibers (rhabdomyolysis), a high fever, increased acid levels in the blood and other tissues (acidosis), and a rapid heart rate. The complications of malignant hyperthermia can be life-threatening unless they are treated promptly.  Intelligence is unaffected in most people with Freeman-Sheldon syndrome, but approximately one-third have some degree of intellectual disability."
316,What is (are) Mycosis Fungoides and the Szary Syndrome ?,"Key Points
                    - Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are diseases in which lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell) become malignant (cancerous) and affect the skin.    - Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.     - A sign of mycosis fungoides is a red rash on the skin.    - In the Szary syndrome, cancerous T-cells are found in the blood.    - Tests that examine the skin and blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are diseases in which lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell) become malignant (cancerous) and affect the skin.
                    Normally, the bone marrow makes blood stem cells (immature cells) that become mature blood stem cells over time. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes a red blood cell, white blood cell, or platelet. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a lymphoblast and then one of three types of lymphocytes (white blood cells):         -  B-cell lymphocytes that make antibodies to help fight infection.    -  T-cell lymphocytes that help B-lymphocytes make the antibodies that help fight infection.    -  Natural killer cells that attack cancer cells and viruses.         In mycosis fungoides, T-cell lymphocytes become cancerous and affect the skin. In the Szary syndrome, cancerous T-cell lymphocytes affect the skin and are in the blood.
                
                
                    Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
                    Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are the two most common types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma). For information about other types of skin cancer or non-Hodgkin lymphoma, see the following PDQ summaries:         -  Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment     -  Skin Cancer Treatment     -  Melanoma Treatment     -  Kaposi Sarcoma Treatment
                
              
                
                    In the Szary syndrome, cancerous T-cells are found in the blood.
                    Also, skin all over the body is reddened, itchy, peeling, and painful. There may also be patches, plaques, or tumors on the skin. It is not known if the Szary syndrome is an advanced form of mycosis fungoides or a separate disease."
317,What is (are) Alagille Syndrome ?,"The digestive system is made up of the gastrointestinal (GI) tractalso called the digestive tractand the liver, pancreas, and gallbladder. The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. The hollow organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestinewhich includes the colon and rectumand anus. Food enters the mouth and passes to the anus through the hollow organs of the digestive system. The liver, pancreas, and gallbladder are the solid organs of the digestive system. The digestive system helps the body digest food."
318,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Brachial Plexus Injuries ?,The NINDS conducts and supports research on injuries to the nervous system such as brachial plexus injuries. Much of this research is aimed at finding ways to prevent and treat these disorders.
319,What causes HELLP syndrome ?,"What causes HELLP syndrome? Doctors are still unclear on what exactly causes HELLP syndrome. Although it is more common in women who have preeclampsia or pregnancy induced hypertension (high blood pressure), there are still a number of women who get it without previously showing signs of preeclampsia. The following risk factors may increase a woman's risk of developing HELLP syndrome: Previous pregnancy with HELLP Syndrome (19-27% chance of recurrence in each pregnancy) Preeclampsia or pregnancy induced hypertension Women over the age of 25 Being caucasian Multiparous (given birth two or more times)"
320,What is (are) Floods ?,"Floods are common in the United States. Weather such as heavy rain, thunderstorms, hurricanes, or tsunamis can cause flooding. Flooding can also happen when a river or stream overflows its bank, when a levee is breached, or when a dam breaks. Flash floods, which can develop quickly, often have a dangerous wall of roaring water. The wall carries rocks, mud, and rubble and can sweep away most things in its path.    Be aware of flood hazards no matter where you live, but especially if you live in a low-lying area, near water or downstream from a dam. Although there are no guarantees of safety during a flood, you can take actions to protect yourself. You should have a disaster plan. Being prepared can help reduce fear, anxiety, and losses. If you do experience a disaster, it is normal to feel stressed. You may need help in finding ways to cope.    Federal Emergency Management Agency"
321,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Isaacs' Syndrome ?,"The NINDS supports an extensive research program of basic studies to increase understanding of diseases that affect the brain, spinal cord, muscles, and nerves. This research examines the genetics, symptoms, progression, and psychological and behavioral impact of diseases, with the goal of improving ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, cure these disorders."
322,Is Cant syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered ABCC9 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few reported cases, an affected person has inherited the mutation from one affected parent."
323,What is (are) Peters plus syndrome ?,"Peters plus syndrome is an inherited condition that is characterized by eye abnormalities, short stature, an opening in the lip (cleft lip) with or without an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate), distinctive facial features, and intellectual disability.  The eye problems in Peters plus syndrome occur in an area at the front part of the eye known as the anterior segment. The anterior segment consists of structures including the lens, the colored part of the eye (iris), and the clear covering of the eye (cornea). An eye problem called Peters anomaly is the most common anterior segment abnormality seen in Peters plus syndrome. Peters anomaly involves abnormal development of the anterior segment, which results in a cornea that is cloudy (opaque) and causes blurred vision. Peters anomaly may also be associated with clouding of the lenses of the eyes (cataracts) or other lens abnormalities. Peters anomaly is usually bilateral, which means that it affects both eyes. The severity of corneal clouding and other eye problems can vary between individuals with Peters plus syndrome, even among members of the same family. Many people with Peters plus syndrome experience vision loss that worsens over time.  All people with Peters plus syndrome have short stature, which is evident before birth. The height of adult males with this condition ranges from 141 centimeters to 155 centimeters (4 feet, 7 inches to 5 feet, 1 inch), and the height of adult females ranges from 128 centimeters to 151 centimeters (4 feet, 2 inches to 4 feet, 11 inches). Individuals with Peters plus syndrome also have shortened upper limbs (rhizomelia) and shortened fingers and toes (brachydactyly).  The characteristic facial features of Peters plus syndrome include a prominent forehead; small, malformed ears; narrow eyes; a long area between the nose and mouth (philtrum); and a pronounced double curve of the upper lip (Cupid's bow). The neck may also be broad and webbed. A cleft lip with or without a cleft palate is present in about half of the people with this condition.  Developmental milestones, such as walking and speech, are delayed in most children with Peters plus syndrome. Most affected individuals also have intellectual disability that can range from mild to severe, although some have normal intelligence. The severity of physical features does not predict the level of intellectual disability.  Less common signs and symptoms of Peters plus syndrome include heart defects, structural brain abnormalities, hearing loss, and kidney or genital abnormalities."
324,What are the symptoms of Isolated ACTH deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Isolated ACTH deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Isolated ACTH deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adrenal hypoplasia - Adrenocorticotropic hormone deficiency - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased circulating cortisol level - Fasting hypoglycemia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
325,Is congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
326,What are the treatments for Cutaneous mastocytosis ?,"How might cutaneous mastocytosis be treated? Although there is currently no cure for cutaneous mastocytosis, treatments are available to manage the symptoms of the condition. In general, it is recommended that affected people avoid things that trigger or worsen their symptoms when possible. Certain medications such as oral antihistamines and topical steroids are often prescribed to relieve symptoms. Affected adults may also undergo photochemotherapy which can help alleviate itching and improve the appearance of the patches; however, the condition is likely to recur within six to twelve months of the last treatment. People at risk for anaphylactic shock and/or their caregivers should be trained in how to recognize and treat this life-threatening reaction and should carry an epinephrine autoinjector at all times."
327,What is (are) Bronchiolitis obliterans ?,"Bronchiolitis obliterans is an inflammatory obstruction of the lung's tiniest airways, the bronchioles. The bronchioles may become damaged and inflamed after inhalation of toxic fumes, as a result of respiratory infections, in association with connective tissue disorders, or after bone marrow or heart-lung transplants. This leads to extensive scarring that blocks the airways, leading to a dry cough, shortness of breath, fatigue and wheezing in the absence of a cold or asthma. While there is no way to reverse the disease, treatments are available to stabilize or slow the progression.   Another similarly named disease, bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia, is a completely different disease."
328,Is Weyers acrofacial dysostosis inherited ?,"Weyers acrofacial dysostosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered EVC or EVC2 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from a parent who has the condition."
329,What are the treatments for transthyretin amyloidosis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of transthyretin amyloidosis:  - Boston University: Amyloid Treatment & Research Program  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Familial Transthyretin Amyloidosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Amyloidogenic transthyretin amyloidosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Autonomic neuropathy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
330,How to prevent Parasites - Zoonotic Hookworm ?,"Wearing shoes and taking other protective measures to avoid skin contact with sand or soil will prevent infection with zoonotic hookworms. Travelers to tropical and subtropical climates, especially where beach exposures are likely, should be advised to wear shoes and use protective mats or other coverings to prevent direct skin contact with sand or soil. Routine veterinary care of dogs and cats, including regular deworming, will reduce environmental contamination with zoonotic hookworm eggs and larvae. Prompt disposal of animal feces prevents eggs from hatching and contaminating soil -- which makes it important for control of this parasitic infection."
331,What causes Autoimmune Hepatitis ?,"A combination of autoimmunity, environmental triggers, and a genetic predisposition can lead to autoimmune hepatitis."
332,What is (are) Jacobsen syndrome ?,"Jacobsen syndrome is a condition caused by a loss of genetic material from chromosome 11. Because this deletion occurs at the end (terminus) of the long (q) arm of chromosome 11, Jacobsen syndrome is also known as 11q terminal deletion disorder.  The signs and symptoms of Jacobsen syndrome vary considerably. Most affected individuals have delayed development, including the development of speech and motor skills (such as sitting, standing, and walking). Most also have cognitive impairment and learning difficulties. Behavioral problems have been reported, including compulsive behavior (such as shredding paper), a short attention span, and easy distractibility. Many people with Jacobsen syndrome have been diagnosed with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Jacobsen syndrome is also associated with an increased likelihood of autism spectrum disorders, which are characterized by impaired communication and socialization skills.  Jacobsen syndrome is also characterized by distinctive facial features. These include small and low-set ears, widely set eyes (hypertelorism) with droopy eyelids (ptosis), skin folds covering the inner corner of the eyes (epicanthal folds), a broad nasal bridge, downturned corners of the mouth, a thin upper lip, and a small lower jaw. Affected individuals often have a large head size (macrocephaly) and a skull abnormality called trigonocephaly, which gives the forehead a pointed appearance.  More than 90 percent of people with Jacobsen syndrome have a bleeding disorder called Paris-Trousseau syndrome. This condition causes a lifelong risk of abnormal bleeding and easy bruising. Paris-Trousseau syndrome is a disorder of platelets, which are blood cell fragments that are necessary for blood clotting.  Other features of Jacobsen syndrome can include heart defects, feeding difficulties in infancy, short stature, frequent ear and sinus infections, and skeletal abnormalities. The disorder can also affect the digestive system, kidneys, and genitalia. The life expectancy of people with Jacobsen syndrome is unknown, although affected individuals have lived into adulthood."
333,What are the treatments for Hypotrichosis simplex ?,"Is there treatment for hypotrichosis simplex? Is there hope for hair growth in the future? Individuals with hypotrichosis simplex experience a gradual loss of scalp hair that begins during the middle of the first decade and results in almost complete loss of hair by the third decade. A few sparse, fine, short hairs may remain in some individuals. There is currently no treatment for hypotrichosis simplex."
334,What are the treatments for hypermethioninemia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hypermethioninemia:  - Baby's First Test  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycine N-methyltransferase deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hepatic methionine adenosyltransferase deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypermethioninemia with s-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
335,What causes Hemifacial microsomia ?,"What causes hemifacial microsomia? For most people with hemifacial microsomia, the cause is unknown. It is believed that something occurs in the early stages of development, such as a disturbance of the blood supply to the first and second branchial arches in the first 6 to 8 weeks of pregnancy. Studies have suggested multiple possible risk factors for hemifacial microsomia. Environmental risk factors include the use of medications during pregnancy such as Accutane, pseudoephedrine, aspirin, or ibuprofen. Other environmental factors include second trimester bleeding, maternal diabetes, being pregnant with multiples, or the use of assisted reproductive technology. A genetic cause is found in some families, such as a chromosome disorder or a genetic syndrome. Some possible explanations when the cause of hemifacial microsomia is unknown include a very small chromosome deletion or duplication that is not detected, a mutation in an unknown gene, or changes in multiple genes associated with development of the face. It is also possible that a combination of genetic changes and environmental risk factors could cause hemifacial microsomia."
336,What is (are) Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young ?,"Testing for monogenic diabetes involves providing a blood sample from which DNA is isolated. The DNA is analyzed for changes in the genes that cause monogenic diabetes. Abnormal results can determine the gene responsible for diabetes in a particular individual or show whether someone is likely to develop a monogenic form of diabetes in the future. Genetic testing can also be helpful in selecting the most appropriate treatment for individuals with monogenic diabetes. Prenatal testing can diagnose these conditions in unborn children.
                
Most forms of monogenic diabetes are caused by dominant mutations, meaning that the condition can be passed on to children when only one parent is affected. In contrast, if the mutation is a recessive mutation, a disease gene must be inherited from both parents for diabetes to occur. For recessive forms of monogenic diabetes, testing can indicate whether parents or siblings without disease are carriers for recessive genetic conditions that could be inherited by their children.
                
If you suspect that you or a member of your family may have a monogenic form of diabetes, you should seek help from health care professionals-physicians and genetic counselors-who have specialized knowledge and experience in this area. They can determine whether genetic testing is appropriate, select the genetic tests that should be performed, and provide information about the basic principles of genetics, genetic testing options, and confidentiality issues. They also can review the test results with the patient or parent after testing, make recommendations about how to proceed, and discuss testing options for other family members."
337,"What are the symptoms of Thumb deformity, alopecia, pigmentation anomaly ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Thumb deformity, alopecia, pigmentation anomaly? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Thumb deformity, alopecia, pigmentation anomaly. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 90% Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Short stature 90% Abnormality of dental morphology 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Abnormality of the pinna 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Hypopigmented skin patches 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Palmoplantar keratoderma 50% Triphalangeal thumb 50% Urticaria 50% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Alopecia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Increased groin pigmentation with raindrop depigmentation - Intellectual disability - Short thumb - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
338,What are the symptoms of Syndactyly type 9 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Syndactyly type 9? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Syndactyly type 9. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Adactyly 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the distal phalanges of the toes 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Short hallux 90% Toe syndactyly 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 50% Synostosis of carpal bones 50% 3-4 finger syndactyly - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the hallux - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Proximal/middle symphalangism of 5th finger - Single transverse palmar crease - Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hallux - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
339,What are the genetic changes related to 1q21.1 microdeletion ?,"Most people with a 1q21.1 microdeletion are missing a sequence of about 1.35 million DNA building blocks (base pairs), also written as 1.35 megabases (Mb), in the q21.1 region of chromosome 1. However, the exact size of the deleted region varies. This deletion affects one of the two copies of chromosome 1 in each cell.  The signs and symptoms that can result from a 1q21.1 microdeletion are probably related to the loss of several genes in this region. Researchers are working to determine which missing genes contribute to the specific features associated with the deletion. Because some people with a 1q21.1 microdeletion have no obvious related features, additional genetic or environmental factors are thought to be involved in the development of signs and symptoms.  Researchers sometimes refer to 1q21.1 microdeletion as the recurrent distal 1.35-Mb deletion to distinguish it from the genetic change that causes thrombocytopenia-absent radius syndrome (TAR syndrome). TAR syndrome results from the deletion of a different, smaller DNA segment in the chromosome 1q21.1 region near the area where the 1.35-Mb deletion occurs. The chromosomal change related to TAR syndrome is often called the 200-kb deletion."
340,What to do for Lupus Nephritis ?,"Eating, diet, and nutrition have not been shown to play a role in causing or preventing lupus nephritis. People with kidney disease that progresses may need to talk with a health care provider about changes they may need to make to their diet. People with lupus nephritis and high blood pressure may benefit from reducing sodium intake, often from salt. More information about nutrition in people with kidney disease is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Nutrition for Early Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults and Nutrition for Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease in Adults."
341,What are the treatments for glycogen storage disease type IX ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of glycogen storage disease type IX:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Phosphorylase Kinase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease IXb  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease IXc  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease IXd  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease type IXa1   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
342,What are the symptoms of Ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ataxia - hypogonadism - choroidal dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Abnormality of the genital system 90% Incoordination 90% Abnormal upper motor neuron morphology 5% Spasticity 5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Chorioretinal dystrophy - Distal amyotrophy - Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism - Hyporeflexia - Intention tremor - Juvenile onset - Photophobia - Progressive - Progressive visual loss - Retinal dystrophy - Scanning speech - Spinocerebellar atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
343,What are the symptoms of Kowarski syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Kowarski syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Kowarski syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Delayed skeletal maturation - Pituitary dwarfism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
344,What are the symptoms of Chromosome 8p23.1 deletion ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Chromosome 8p23.1 deletion? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chromosome 8p23.1 deletion. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Abnormality of the nose 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 50% Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 50% Complete atrioventricular canal defect 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Epicanthus 50% External ear malformation 50% High forehead 50% Microcephaly 50% Narrow forehead 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Seizures 50% Short neck 50% Short stature 50% Weight loss 50% Abnormality of the aorta 7.5% Abnormality of thumb phalanx 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Deeply set eye 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Hypoplastic left heart 7.5% Obesity 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Preaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Proximal placement of thumb 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Transposition of the great arteries 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
345,What is (are) Osteopetrosis autosomal recessive 3 ?,"Osteopetrosis is a bone disease that makes bones abnormally dense and prone to breakage (fracture). Researchers have described several major types of osteopetrosis, which are usually distinguished by their pattern of inheritance: autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked. The different types of the disorder can also be distinguished by the severity of their signs and symptoms. Mutations in at least nine genes cause the various types of osteopetrosis."
346,How to diagnose Renal Artery Stenosis ?,"A health care provider can diagnose RAS by listening to the abdomen with a stethoscope and performing imaging tests. When blood flows through a narrow artery, it sometimes makes a whooshing sound, called a bruit. The health care provider may place a stethoscope on the front or the side of the abdomen to listen for this sound. The absence of this sound, however, does not exclude the possibility of RAS.
                
In some cases, RAS is found when a person has a test for another reason. For example, a health care provider may find RAS during a coronary angiogram for diagnosis of heart problems. A coronary angiogram is a procedure that uses a special dye, called contrast medium, and x rays to see how blood flows through the heart.
                
The following imaging tests are used to diagnose RAS:
                
- Duplex ultrasound. Duplex ultrasound combines traditional ultrasound with Doppler ultrasonography. Traditional ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. Doppler ultrasonography records sound waves reflected off of moving objects, such as blood, to measure their speed and other aspects of how they flow. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging. Anesthesia is not needed. The images can show blockage in the renal artery or blood moving through nearby arteries at a lower-than-normal speed. Ultrasound is noninvasive and low cost.  - Catheter angiogram. A catheter angiogram, also called a traditional angiogram, is a special kind of x ray in which a thin, flexible tube called a catheter is threaded through the large arteries, often from the groin, to the artery of interestin this case, the renal artery. The procedure is performed in a hospital or outpatient center by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed though a sedative may be given to lessen anxiety during the procedure. Contrast medium is injected through the catheter so the renal artery shows up more clearly on the x ray. Catheter angiogram is the gold standard for diagnosing RAS due to the high quality of the image produced. In addition, severe RAS can be treated during the same visit. However, a catheter angiogram is an invasive procedure, and a person may have side effects from the sedative or contrast medium or may have bleeding or injury to the artery from the catheter. The procedure is also more expensive than other imaging tests.  - Computerized tomographic angiography (CTA) scan. CTA scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create images. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. Contrast medium is injected into a vein in the persons arm to better see the structure of the arteries. CTA scans require the person to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. CTA scans are less invasive than catheter angiograms and take less time. However, the risks from the x-ray radiation still exist, and the test often requires more contrast medium than a catheter angiogram, so it may not be recommended for a person with poor kidney function.  - Magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA). MRA uses radio waves and magnets to produce detailed pictures of the bodys internal organs and soft tissues without using x rays. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed though light sedation may be used for people with a fear of confined spaces. Contrast medium may be injected into a vein in the persons arm to better see the structure of the arteries. With most MRA scans, the person lies on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device that may be open ended or closed at one end; some newer machines are designed to allow the person to lie in a more open space. In addition to providing high-quality images noninvasively, MRA can provide a functional assessment of blood flow and organ function. However, the use of contrast medium for an MRA is not advised for people with poor kidney function because of the risk of complications to the skin and other organs if the kidneys do not remove the contrast medium well enough."
347,What is (are) Pulmonary vein stenosis ?,"Pulmonary vein stenosis is a very rare and serious condition in which there is a blockage in the blood vessels that bring oxygen-rich blood from the lungs back to the heart. This condition can be isolated to one vein, but often affects multiple veins. Stenosis occurs when there is an abnormal thickening and narrowing of the walls of the veins. Pulmonary vein stenosis is a progressive condition and may lead to total obstruction to a blood vessel. Most commonly, all of the pulmonary veins of one lung are affected, causing pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary arterial hypertension. Surgery and catheterization to widen the narrow veins is usually a short-term solution since the obstruction typically recurs."
348,What are the symptoms of Arginase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Arginase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Arginase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% EEG abnormality 50% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 50% Hyperammonemia 50% Seizures 50% Anorexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Diaminoaciduria - Hyperactivity - Intellectual disability - Irritability - Oroticaciduria - Postnatal growth retardation - Progressive spastic quadriplegia - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
349,Is Stargardt disease inherited ?,"How is Stargardt disease inherited? Stargardt disease is most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier A person with autosomal recessive Stargardt disease will always pass one mutated copy of the gene to each of his/her children. In other words, each of his/her children will at least be a carrier.  A child of an affected person can be affected if the other parent is also affected or is a carrier. In rare cases, Stargardt disease may be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having a mutation in only one copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause features of the condition. An affected person typically inherits the mutated gene from an affected parent. When a person with a mutation that causes an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) chance to inherit that mutation."
350,Is Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
351,How many people are affected by Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome ?,Marinesco-Sjgren syndrome appears to be a rare condition. More than 100 cases have been reported worldwide.
352,Is Diabetes mellitus type 1 inherited ?,"Is diabetes mellitus type 1 inherited? Diabetes mellitus type 1 (DM1) itself is not inherited, but a predisposition to developing the condition can run in families. While some people with a family history of DM1 may be at an increased risk, most will not have the condition. While the exact cause is not known, some genetic risk factors have been found. The risk of developing DM1 is increased by having certain versions (variants) of genes, which belong to a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. HLA genes have many variations, and people have a certain combination of these variations, called a haplotype. Certain HLA haplotypes are associated with a higher risk of developing DM1, with particular combinations causing the highest risk. However, these variants are also found in the general population, and only about 5% of people with the gene variants develop DM1. Other genes, as well as a variety of other factors, are thought to influence the risk for DM1 also. Because there is no specific inheritance pattern associated with DM1, it is difficult to predict whether another family member will develop the condition. Generally, the risk is higher if a parent or sibling is affected. In some cases, genetic testing can be done to determine if someone who has a family history is at increased risk of developing the condition.  More information can be found on the America Diabetes Association's Web site, which has an article entitled Genetics of Diabetes. People with specific questions about genetic risks to themselves or family members should speak with their health care provider or a genetics professional."
353,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Lung Cancer ?,"Researchers continue to look at new ways to combine, schedule, and sequence the use of chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation to treat lung cancer. Today, some of the most promising treatment approaches incorporate precision medicine. This approach first looks to see what genes may be mutated that are causing the cancer, and once these genes are identified, specific drugs may be available that target the mutations and treat the cancer directly without the harsh side-effects often found with conventional chemotherapy. Researchers are also constantly trying to come up with new ways to find and diagnose lung cancer in order to catch it and treat it in its earliest stages. The National Lung Screening Trial, or NLST, showed conclusively that spiral CT reduced the risk of dying by 20 percent compared to those who received a chest x-ray among heavy smokers Get more information on current lung cancer research."
354,What are the symptoms of Accessory deep peroneal nerve ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Accessory deep peroneal nerve? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Accessory deep peroneal nerve. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the nervous system - Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
355,What are the symptoms of Glomerulopathy with fibronectin deposits 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Glomerulopathy with fibronectin deposits 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glomerulopathy with fibronectin deposits 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Edema of the lower limbs 90% Glomerulopathy 90% Hematuria 90% Hypertension 90% Nephrotic syndrome 90% Proteinuria 90% Renal insufficiency 90% Intracranial hemorrhage 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Lobular glomerulopathy - Microscopic hematuria - Nephropathy - Slow progression - Stage 5 chronic kidney disease - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
356,What are the symptoms of Duodenal ulcer due to antral G-cell hyperfunction ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Duodenal ulcer due to antral G-cell hyperfunction? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Duodenal ulcer due to antral G-cell hyperfunction. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Duodenal ulcer - Hyperpepsinogenemia I - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
357,Do you have information about Fetal Health and Development,"Summary : A normal pregnancy lasts nine months. Each three-month period of pregnancy is called a trimester. During each trimester, the fetus grows and develops. There are specific prenatal tests to monitor both the mother's health and fetal health during each trimester.     With modern technology, health professionals can       - Detect birth defects    - Identify problems that may affect childbirth    - Correct some kinds of fetal problems before the baby is born"
358,What causes Depression ?,"Several lines of research have shown that depressive illnesses are disorders of the brain. But the exact causes for these illnesses are not yet clear and are still being studied. Changes in the Brain Imaging technologies show that the brains of people with depression look different or are working differently than those who do not have the illness. The areas of the brain that control moods, thinking, sleep, appetite, and behavior appear not to be functioning well. The scans also show very high or very low levels of important brain chemicals. But these images do not reveal WHY the depression has occurred. Many Possible Causes In general, there is no one cause or risk factor for depression. It most likely results from many factors, such as family history, life experiences, and environment. Older adults with depression may have had it when they were younger, or they may have a family history of the illness. They may also be going through difficult life events, such as losing a loved one, a difficult relationship with a family member or friend, or financial troubles. For older adults who experience depression for the first time later in life, other factors may be at play. Depression may be related to changes that occur in the brain and body as a person ages. For example, some older adults who are at risk for illnesses such as heart disease or stroke may have hardening and inflammation of the blood vessels, and blood may not be able to flow normally to the body's organs, including the brain. Over time, this blood vessel disease and restricted blood flow can damage nearby brain tissue and harm the nerve connections that help different parts of the brain communicate with each other. If this happens, an older adult with no family history of depression may develop what some doctors call ""vascular depression."" Older adults may also experience depression as a result of brain changes caused by illnesses such as Alzheimers disease or Parkinsons disease. This type of depression can appear in the early stages of these diseases, before many symptoms appear. Depression Can Occur With Other Illnesses Depression can also co-occur with other serious medical illnesses such as diabetes, cancer, and Parkinson's disease. Depression can make these conditions worse, and vice versa. Sometimes, medications taken for these illnesses may cause side effects that contribute to depression. Because many older adults face these illnesses along with various social and economic difficulties, some health care professionals may wrongly conclude that these problems are the cause of the depression -- an opinion often shared by patients themselves. All these factors can cause depression to go undiagnosed or untreated in older people. Yet, treating the depression will help an older adult better manage other conditions he or she may have."
359,What is (are) Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?,"The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food. Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestinewhich includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectumand anus. The intestines are sometimes called the bowel. The last part of the GI tractcalled the lower GI tractconsists of the large intestine and anus.
                
The large intestine absorbs water and any remaining nutrients from partially digested food passed from the small intestine. The large intestine then changes waste from liquid to a solid matter called stool. Stool passes from the colon to the rectum. The rectum is located between the last part of the coloncalled the sigmoid colonand the anus. The rectum stores stool prior to a bowel movement. During a bowel movement, stool moves from the rectum to the anus, the opening through which stool leaves the body."
360,Is Rett syndrome inherited ?,"Is Rett syndrome inherited? Although Rett syndrome is a genetic disorder, less than 1 percent of recorded cases are inherited or passed from one generation to the next. Most cases are sporadic, which means the mutation occurs randomly, and are not inherited. A few families have been described with more than one affected family member. These cases helped researchers determine that Rett syndrome has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition."
361,What is (are) Pemphigus vulgaris ?,"Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune disorder that involves blistering of the skin and mucous membranes. It occurs almost exclusively in middle-aged or older people. Many cases begin with blisters in the mouth, followed by skin blisters that may come and go. In most cases, the exact cause of pemphigus vulgaris is unknown. It has rarely been observed in multiple members of the same family. Treatment is aimed at reducing symptoms and preventing complications. Severe cases are treated similarly to severe burns."
362,What are the treatments for molybdenum cofactor deficiency ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of molybdenum cofactor deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Combined molybdoflavoprotein enzyme deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Molybdenum cofactor deficiency, complementation group A  - Genetic Testing Registry: Molybdenum cofactor deficiency, complementation group B  - Genetic Testing Registry: Molybdenum cofactor deficiency, complementation group C   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
363,How many people are affected by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"Severe dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency, with its early-onset neurological symptoms, is a rare disorder. Its prevalence is unknown. However, between 2 and 8 percent of the general population may be vulnerable to toxic reactions to fluoropyrimidine drugs caused by otherwise asymptomatic dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency."
364,What is (are) Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia ?,"Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia (MED) is a group of disorders of cartilage and bone development, primarily affecting the ends of the long bones in the arms and legs (epiphyses). There are two types of MED, which are distinguished by their patterns of inheritance - autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive. Signs and symptoms may include joint pain in the hips and knees; early-onset arthritis; a waddling walk; and mild short stature as adults. Recessive MED may also cause malformations of the hands, feet, and knees; scoliosis; or other abnormalities. Most people are diagnosed during childhood, but mild cases may not be diagnosed until adulthood. Dominant MED is caused by mutations in the COMP, COL9A1, COL9A2, COL9A3, or MATN3 genes (or can be of unknown cause), and recessive MED is caused by mutations in the SLC26A2 gene."
365,What are the treatments for Cystocele ?,"Cystocele treatment depends on the severity of the cystocele and whether a woman has symptoms. If a womans cystocele does not bother her, a health care provider may recommend only that she avoid heavy lifting or straining, which could worsen her cystocele. If a woman has symptoms that bother her and wants treatment, the health care provider may recommend pelvic muscle exercises, a vaginal pessary, or surgery.
                
Pelvic floor, or Kegel, exercises involve strengthening pelvic floor muscles. Strong pelvic floor muscles more effectively hold pelvic organs in place. A woman does not need special equipment for Kegel exercises.
                
The exercises involve tightening and relaxing the muscles that support pelvic organs. A health care provider can help a woman learn proper technique.
                
More information about pelvic muscle exercises is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Kegel Exercise Tips.
                
A vaginal pessary is a small, silicone medical device placed in the vagina that supports the vaginal wall and holds the bladder in place. Pessaries come in a number of shapes and sizes. A health care provider has many options to choose from to find the most comfortable pessary for a woman.
                
A heath care provider may recommend surgery to repair the vaginal wall support and reposition the womans bladder to its normal position. The most common cystocele repair is an anterior vaginal repairor anterior colporrhaphy. The surgeon makes an incision in the wall of the womans vagina and repairs the defect by folding over and sewing together extra supportive tissue between the vagina and bladder. The repair tightens the layers of tissue that separate the organs, creating more support for the bladder. A surgeon who specializes in the urinary tract or female reproductive system performs an anterior vaginal repair in a hospital. The woman receives either regional or general anesthesia. The woman may stay overnight in the hospital, and full recovery may take up to 4 to 6 weeks."
366,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dravet Syndrome ?,"The NINDS conducts and supports a broad program of basic and clinical research on all types of epilepsy, including Dravet syndrome. Study of the genetic defects responsible for Dravet syndrome and related disorders is expected to lead to the development of effective drug therapies."
367,What are the symptoms of Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?,"Most people with primary hyperparathyroidism have no symptoms. When symptoms appear, they are often mild and nonspecific, such as
                
- muscle weakness  - fatigue and an increased need for sleep  - feelings of depression  - aches and pains in bones and joints
                
People with more severe disease may have
                
- loss of appetite  - nausea  - vomiting  - constipation  - confusion or impaired thinking and memory  - increased thirst and urination
                
These symptoms are mainly due to the high blood calcium levels that result from excessive PTH."
368,What are the genetic changes related to globozoospermia ?,"Globozoospermia is most commonly caused by mutations in the DPY19L2 gene, which are found in about 70 percent of men with this condition. Mutations in other genes likely also cause globozoospermia.  The DPY19L2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is found in developing sperm cells. The DPY19L2 protein is involved in the development of the acrosome and elongation of the sperm head, which are integral steps in sperm cell maturation. Mutations in the DPY19L2 gene result in a loss of functional DPY19L2 protein. As a result, sperm cells have no acrosome and do not elongate properly. Without an acrosome, the abnormal sperm are unable to get through the outer membrane of an egg cell to fertilize it, leading to infertility in affected men. Researchers have described other characteristics of the abnormal sperm cells that make fertilization of an egg cell difficult, although it is not clear how changes in the DPY19L2 gene are involved in development of these characteristics."
369,What is (are) Developmental dysphasia familial ?,"Developmental dysphasia is a language disorder that develops in children. The disorder typically involves difficulties speaking and understanding spoken words. The symptoms cannot be attributed to sensorimotor, intellectual deficits, autism spectrum, or other developmental impairments. Likewise it does not occur as the consequence of an evident brain lesion or as a result of the child's social environment. Familial cases of developmental dyphasia have been described. In these families, the condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion."
370,What are the genetic changes related to Sheldon-Hall syndrome ?,"Sheldon-Hall syndrome can be caused by mutations in the MYH3, TNNI2, TNNT3, or TPM2 gene. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are involved in muscle tensing (contraction).  Muscle contraction occurs when thick filaments made of proteins called myosins slide past thin filaments made of proteins called actins. The MYH3 gene provides instructions for making a myosin protein that is normally active only before birth and is important for early development of the muscles.  The process of muscle contraction is controlled (regulated) by other proteins called troponins and tropomyosins, which affect the interaction of myosin and actin. Certain troponin proteins are produced from the TNNI2 and TNNT3 genes. The TPM2 gene provides instructions for making a tropomyosin protein.  Mutations in the MYH3, TNNI2, TNNT3, or TPM2 gene likely interfere with normal muscle development or prevent muscle contractions from being properly controlled, resulting in the contractures and other muscle and skeletal abnormalities associated with Sheldon-Hall syndrome. It is unknown why the contractures mainly affect the hands and feet or how these gene mutations are related to other features of this disorder."
371,What is (are) Acute alcohol sensitivity ?,"Alcohol intolerance is characterized by immediate unpleasant reactions after drinking alcohol. The most common signs and symptoms of alcohol intolerance are stuffy nose and skin flushing. Alcohol intolerance is caused by a genetic condition in which the body is unable to break down alcohol efficiently, usually found in Asians. These individuals accumulate acetaldehyde, the primary metabolite of ethanol, because of a genetic polymorphism of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) that metabolizes acetaldehyde to nontoxic acetate.[9184] The only way to prevent alcohol intolerance reactions is to avoid alcohol. Alcohol intolerance isn't an allergy. However, in some cases, what seems to be alcohol intolerance may be a reaction to something in an alcoholic beverage, such as chemicals, grains or preservatives. Combining alcohol with certain medications also can cause reactions. In rare instances, an unpleasant reaction to alcohol can be a sign of a serious underlying health problem that requires diagnosis and treatment."
372,How to diagnose Hendra Virus Disease (HeV) ?,"Laboratory tests that are used to diagnose Hendra virus (HV) and Nipah virus (NV) include detection of antibody by ELISA (IgG and IgM), real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and virus isolation attempts.  In most countries, handling Hendra virus needs to be done in high containment laboratories. Laboratory diagnosis of a patient with a clinical history of HV or NV can be made during the acute and convalescent phase of the disease by using a combination of tests including detection of antibody in the serum or the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), viral RNA detection (RT-PCR) in the serum, CSF, or throat swabs, and virus isolation from the CSF or throat swabs."
373,What are the treatments for Cant syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Cant syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Cant syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypertrichotic osteochondrodysplasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
374,How many people are affected by Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome ?,Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome is a rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown. Fewer than 20 people with this condition have been reported worldwide.
375,What are the genetic changes related to Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome ?,"Mutations in the WAS gene cause Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. The WAS gene provides instructions for making a protein called WASP. This protein is found in all blood cells. WASP is involved in relaying signals from the surface of blood cells to the actin cytoskeleton, which is a network of fibers that make up the cell's structural framework. WASP signaling activates the cell when it is needed and triggers its movement and attachment to other cells and tissues (adhesion). In white blood cells, this signaling allows the actin cytoskeleton to establish the interaction between cells and the foreign invaders that they target (immune synapse).  WAS gene mutations that cause Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome lead to a lack of any functional WASP. Loss of WASP signaling disrupts the function of the actin cytoskeleton in developing blood cells. White blood cells that lack WASP have a decreased ability to respond to their environment and form immune synapses. As a result, white blood cells are less able to respond to foreign invaders, causing many of the immune problems related to Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. Similarly, a lack of functional WASP in platelets impairs their development, leading to reduced size and early cell death."
376,How many people are affected by corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency ?,"The prevalence of corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency is unknown, but it is thought to be a rare disorder. However, because some people with the disorder have mild or no symptoms, it is likely that corticosteroid-binding globulin deficiency is underdiagnosed."
377,What causes Bronchiectasis ?,"Damage to the walls of the airways usually is the cause of bronchiectasis. A lung infection may cause this damage. Examples of lung infections that can lead to bronchiectasis include:
                
Severe pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah)
                
Whooping cough or measles (uncommon in the United States due to vaccination)
                
Tuberculosis
                
Fungal infections
                
Conditions that damage the airways and raise the risk of lung infections also can lead to bronchiectasis. Examples of such conditions include:
                
Cystic fibrosis. This disease leads to almost half of the cases of bronchiectasis in the United States.
                
Immunodeficiency disorders, such as common variable immunodeficiency and, less often, HIV and AIDS.
                
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (AS-per-ji-LO-sis). This is an allergic reaction to a fungus called aspergillus. The reaction causes swelling in the airways.
                
Disorders that affect cilia (SIL-e-ah) function, such as primary ciliary dyskinesia. Cilia are small, hair-like structures that line your airways. They help clear mucus (a slimy substance) out of your airways.
                
Chronic (ongoing) pulmonary aspiration (as-pih-RA-shun). This is a condition in which you inhale food, liquids, saliva, or vomited stomach contents into your lungs. Aspiration can inflame the airways, which can lead to bronchiectasis.
                
Connective tissue diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, Sjgrens syndrome, and Crohns disease.
                
Other conditions, such as an airway blockage, also can lead to bronchiectasis. Many things can cause a blockage, such as a growth or a noncancerous tumor. An inhaled object, such as a piece of a toy or a peanut that you inhaled as a child, also can cause an airway blockage.
                
A problem with how the lungs form in a fetus may cause congenital bronchiectasis. This condition affects infants and children."
378,What are the symptoms of Young syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Young syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Young syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Decreased fertility 90% Recurrent respiratory infections 90% Abnormality of the pancreas 50% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Azoospermia - Bronchiectasis - Congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation of the lung - Recurrent bronchitis - Recurrent sinopulmonary infections - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
379,How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type IX ?,"GSD IX that affects the liver is estimated to occur in 1 in 100,000 people. The forms of the disease that affect muscles or both muscles and liver are much less common, although the prevalence is unknown."
380,What are the symptoms of Holes in the Heart ?,"Atrial Septal Defect
                
Many babies who are born with atrial septal defects (ASDs) have no signs or symptoms. However, as they grow, these children may be small for their age. 
                
When signs and symptoms do occur, a heart murmur is the most common. A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat.
                
Often, a heart murmur is the only sign of an ASD. However, not all murmurs are signs of congenital heart defects. Many healthy children have heart murmurs. Doctors can listen to heart murmurs and tell whether they're harmless or signs of heart problems.
                
If a large ASD isn't repaired, the extra blood flow to the right side of the heart can damage the heart and lungs and cause heart failure. This generally doesn't occur until adulthood. Signs and symptoms of heart failure include:
                
Fatigue (tiredness)
                
Tiring easily during physical activity
                
Shortness of breath
                
A buildup of blood and fluid in the lungs
                
Swelling in the ankles, feet, legs, abdomen, and veins in the neck
                
Ventricular Septal Defect
                
Babies born with ventricular septal defects (VSDs) usually have heart murmurs. Murmurs may be the first and only sign of a VSD. Heart murmurs often are present right after birth in many infants. However, the murmurs may not be heard until the babies are 6 to 8 weeks old.
                
Most newborns who have VSDs don't have heart-related symptoms. However, babies who have medium or large VSDs can develop heart failure. Signs and symptoms of heart failure usually occur during the baby's first 2 months of life.
                
The signs and symptoms of heart failure due to VSD are similar to those listed above for ASD, but they occur in infancy.
                
A major sign of heart failure in infancy is poor feeding and growth. VSD signs and symptoms are rare after infancy. This is because the defects either decrease in size on their own or they're repaired."
381,What are the treatments for Progressive bulbar palsy ?,"How is progressive bulbar palsy treated? Treatments aim to help people cope with the symptoms of progressive bulbar palsy, such as feeding tubes, devices to help with talking, and medicines to treat muscle spasms, weakness, drooling, sleep problems, pain, and depression. The Robert Packard Center for ALS Research at John Hopkins offers further general information on treatment: http://www.alscenter.org/living_with_als/treatment.html The Mayo Clinic provides information on treatment of ALS in general, which may be helpful: http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/amyotrophic-lateral-sclerosis/basics/treatment/con-20024397 If you are interested in learning about clinical trials, we recommend that you call the Patient Recruitment and Public Liaison (PRPL) Office at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) at 1-800-411-1222. Organizations, such as the ALS Association and Muscular Dystrophy Association are great sources for information on clinical trial opportunities and research. You can find information about participating in a clinical trial as well as learn about resources for travel and lodging assistance, through the Get Involved in Research section of our Web site."
382,How many people are affected by DICER1 syndrome ?,DICER1 syndrome is a rare condition; its prevalence is unknown.
383,What is (are) Skin Cancer ?,"SPF is a sun protection rating. The SPF of a sunscreen is a measure of the time it takes to produce a sunburn in a person wearing sunscreen compared to the time it takes to produce a sunburn in a person not wearing sunscreen. This varies from person to person, so be sure to reapply sunscreen every 2-3 hours."
384,What are the symptoms of Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta? Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) is the acute form of a skin condition called pityriasis lichenoides. It is characterized by the sudden onset of red patches that quickly develop into scaling papules. These papules may become filled with blood and/or pus or erode into crusted red-brown spots. People may also experience burning and itching of the affected area. Scarring and/or temporary discoloration of the skin may be present after the lesions have healed. Although PLEVA can affect almost any part of the body, it most commonly develops on the trunk and/or limbs (arms/legs). Affected people may have a few to more than one hundred papules. The skin abnormalities generally resolve without treatment in a few weeks to a few months; however, some people experience episodes of the condition on and off for years. Aside from the skin findings, most affected people do not experience any additional signs and symptoms. However, some may experience fever, headaches, joint pain and swelling of nearby lymph nodes. Febrile Ulceronecrotic Mucha-Haberman Disease is a rare and severe variant of PLEVA that is associated with unique signs and symptoms. For more information on this condition, please click here."
385,How to prevent Parasites - Baylisascaris infection ?,"Baylisascaris infection can be prevented by avoiding contact with raccoons and their feces. Washing your hands after working or playing outdoors is good practice for preventing a number of diseases.
    
Do not keep, feed, or adopt wild animals, including raccoons, as pets. Infection rarely causes symptoms in raccoons, so you cannot tell if a raccoon is infected by observing its behavior. Roundworm eggs passed in the feces of infected raccoons are not visible to the naked eye. Eggs can only be seen using a microscope.
    
     
    
    
You may discourage raccoons from living in and around your home or parks by taking these steps:
    
     - prevent access to food
     - keep trash containers tightly closed
     - close off access to attics and basements
     - keep sandboxes covered when not in use (raccoons may use sandboxes as a latrine)
     - remove fish ponds -- they eat the fish and drink the water
     - eliminate water sources
     - remove bird feeders
     - clear brush so raccoons are not likely to make a den on your property
    
    
Stay away from areas and materials that might be contaminated by raccoon feces. Raccoons typically defecate at the base of or in raised forks of trees, or on raised horizontal surfaces such as fallen logs, stumps, or large rocks. Raccoon feces also can be found on woodpiles, decks, rooftops, and in attics, garages, and haylofts. Feces usually are dark and tubular, have a pungent odor (usually worse than dog or cat feces), and often contain undigested seeds or other food items.
    
If you have found a raccoon latrine near your home, cleaning the area may prevent possible infection. Newly deposited eggs take at least 2-4 weeks to become infective. Prompt removal and destruction of raccoon feces will reduce risk for exposure and possible infection.
    
More on: Raccoon Latrine Clean-up [PDF, 111 KB, 1 page]
    
     
    
    
If you choose to clean the site yourself, care should be taken to avoid contaminating hands and clothes.
    
     - Wear disposable gloves to help prevent cross contamination.
     - Wear a N95-rated respirator if working in a confined space to prevent accidental ingestion of eggs or other harmful materials.
     - Avoid stirring up dust and debris- you can lightly mist the latrine area with a little water from a spray bottle to reduce the amount of dust.
     - Wear rubber boots that can be scrubbed or cover your shoes with disposable booties that can be thrown away, so that you do not bring eggs into your household.
     - Feces and material contaminated with raccoon feces should be removed and burned, buried, or sent to a landfill.
     - Most chemicals do not kill roundworm eggs; however, heat kills the eggs instantly.
     - Treat feces-soiled decks, patios, and other surfaces with boiling water or a propane torch (please contact your local fire department for regulations and safety practices).
    
    
To help further reduce the risk of possible infection, wash your hands well with soap and warm running water. Clean/launder your clothes thoroughly with hot water and detergent.
    
More on: Handwashing
    
If you are cleaning an indoor raccoon latrine and are not able to use a propane torch, use a damp (but not wet) sponge to wipe the area with hot soapy water. Rinse your sponge frequently. After you are finished, flush dirty water down the toilet. Place the sponge in a plastic bag and put the plastic bag in the garbage.
    
Contact your local animal control office for additional assistance.
    Dogs
    
Dogs may be infected with adult B. procyonis roundworms, but may not show symptoms. Have all pets de-wormed under a veterinarian's supervision and take precautions to avoid contact with their feces.
    Exotic pets
    
Raccoons and dogs are not the only hosts of Baylisascaris. B. procyonis infection has also been documented in kinkajous. Other animals such as coatis may be susceptible. When wild animals are kept as pets, there can be a risk of disease transmission to humans."
386,How to diagnose Metachromatic leukodystrophy ?,"Who might consider genetic carrier testing for a family history of metachromatic leukodystrophy? If someone has a family history of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) or someone is known to be a carrier for MLD, individuals who are biologically related to the affected individual or carrier are at risk to be a carrier. Generally speaking, the more closely related an individual is to the affected individual or carrier, the greater the chance for that person to be a carrier. Prior to genetic testing, the chance to be a carrier for some biological relatives of an affected individual are as follows: Parent of affected individual: assumed to be 100% (called an obligate carrier) Unaffected sibling of affected individual: 2 in 3 (~66.6%) Aunt or uncle of affected individual: 1 in 2 (50%) First cousin of affected individual: 1 in 4 (25%) If someone has carrier testing and is found to be negative (not a carrier), that person's children are typically assumed to be negative also. More information about the use of genetic carrier testing is available on GeneTests' Web site and can be viewed by clicking here. Individuals who are interested in learning about genetic testing and about their specific risk to be a carrier should speak with a genetics professional."
387,What is (are) rheumatoid arthritis ?,"Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that causes chronic abnormal inflammation, primarily affecting the joints. The most common signs and symptoms are pain, swelling, and stiffness of the joints. Small joints in the hands and feet are involved most often, although larger joints (such as the shoulders, hips, and knees) may become involved later in the disease. Joints are typically affected in a symmetrical pattern; for example, if joints in the hand are affected, both hands tend to be involved. People with rheumatoid arthritis often report that their joint pain and stiffness is worse when getting out of bed in the morning or after a long rest.  Rheumatoid arthritis can also cause inflammation of other tissues and organs, including the eyes, lungs, and blood vessels. Additional signs and symptoms of the condition can include a loss of energy, a low fever, weight loss, and a shortage of red blood cells (anemia). Some affected individuals develop rheumatoid nodules, which are firm lumps of noncancerous tissue that can grow under the skin and elsewhere in the body.  The signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis usually appear in mid- to late adulthood. Many affected people have episodes of symptoms (flares) followed by periods with no symptoms (remissions) for the rest of their lives. In severe cases, affected individuals have continuous health problems related to the disease for many years. The abnormal inflammation can lead to severe joint damage, which limits movement and can cause significant disability."
388,What are the treatments for Neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy ?,"How might neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy be treated? To date, there is no treatment for the underlying metabolic problem. Current therapies include adhering to strict dietary guidelines and utilizing treatments focused on the associated symptoms. A recent study suggests that people with this condition may benefit from bezafibrate (a medication used to treat high cholesterol) treatment, particularly with respect to lipid accumulation and fat oxidative capacity. Additional studies into this therapy are needed."
389,What is (are) Lipodermatosclerosis ?,"Lipodermatosclerosis refers to changes in the skin of the lower legs. It is a form of panniculitis (inflammation of the layer of fat under the skin). Signs and symptoms include pain, hardening of skin, change in skin color (redness), swelling, and a tapering of the legs above the ankles. The exact underlying cause is unknown; however, it appears to be associated with venous insufficiency and/or obesity. Treatment usually includes compression therapy."
390,What are the treatments for MECP2 duplication syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of MECP2 duplication syndrome:  - Cincinnati Children's Hospital: MECP2-Related Disorders  - Cleveland Clinic: Spasticity  - Gene Review: Gene Review: MECP2 Duplication Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: MECP2 duplication syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
391,How many people are affected by Bart-Pumphrey syndrome ?,Bart-Pumphrey syndrome is a rare disorder; its exact prevalence is unknown. Only a few affected families and individual cases have been identified.
392,What are the symptoms of Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the skin - Areflexia - Autoamputation (feet) - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Chronic axonal neuropathy - Decreased number of large peripheral myelinated nerve fibers - Decreased sensory nerve conduction velocity - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Distal sensory loss of all modalities - Hyporeflexia - Osteomyelitis - Osteomyelitis or necrosis, distal, due to sensory neuropathy (feet) - Pes cavus - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Skeletal muscle atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
393,What are the treatments for Lamellar ichthyosis ?,"How might lamellar ichthyosis be treated? Unfortunately, there is currently no cure for lamellar ichthyosis. Management is generally supportive and based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For infants, providing a moist environment in an isolette (incubator) and preventing infection are most important. Petrolatum-based creams and ointments are used to keep the skin soft, supple, and hydrated. As affected children become older, treatments to promote peeling and thinning of the stratum corneum (the outermost layer of skin cells) are often recommended. This may include humidification with long baths, lubrication, and keratolytic agents such as alpha-hydroxy acid or urea preparations. For people with ectropion (turning out of the eyelid), lubrication of the cornea with artificial tears or prescription ointments is helpful to prevent the cornea from drying out. Topical or oral retinoid therapy may be recommended for those with severe skin involvement; however, these medications can be associated with undesired side effects and are, therefore, generally prescribed with caution."
394,What to do for Solitary Kidney ?,"- When a person has only one kidney or one working kidney, this kidney is called a solitary kidney. The three main causes of a solitary kidney are birth defects, surgical removal of a kidney, and kidney donation.  - In general, people with a solitary kidney lead full, healthy lives. However, some people are more likely to develop kidney disease.  - People with a solitary kidney should be tested regularly for the following signs of kidney damage:      - albuminuria    - decreased glomerular filtration rate (GFR)    - high blood pressure    - People with a solitary kidney can protect their health by eating a nutritious diet, keeping their blood pressure at the appropriate level, and preventing injury to the working kidney."
395,What are the symptoms of Idiopathic neutropenia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Idiopathic neutropenia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Idiopathic neutropenia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acute myeloid leukemia 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Neutropenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
396,What is the outlook for Kleine-Levin Syndrome ?,Episodes eventually decrease in frequency and intensity over the course of eight to 12 years.
397,What is (are) Sotos syndrome ?,"Sotos syndrome is a disorder characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, overgrowth in childhood, and learning disabilities or delayed development of mental and movement abilities. Characteristic facial features include a long, narrow face; a high forehead; flushed (reddened) cheeks; and a small, pointed chin. In addition, the outside corners of the eyes may point downward (down-slanting palpebral fissures). This facial appearance is most notable in early childhood. Affected infants and children tend to grow quickly; they are significantly taller than their siblings and peers and have an unusually large head. However, adult height is usually in the normal range.  People with Sotos syndrome often have intellectual disability, and most also have behavioral problems. Frequent behavioral issues include attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), phobias, obsessions and compulsions, tantrums, and impulsive behaviors. Problems with speech and language are also common. Affected individuals often have a stutter, a monotone voice, and problems with sound production. Additionally, weak muscle tone (hypotonia) may delay other aspects of early development, particularly motor skills such as sitting and crawling.  Other signs and symptoms of Sotos syndrome can include an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis), seizures, heart or kidney defects, hearing loss, and problems with vision. Some infants with this disorder experience yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice) and poor feeding.  A small percentage of people with Sotos syndrome have developed cancer, most often in childhood, but no single form of cancer occurs most frequently with this condition. It remains uncertain whether Sotos syndrome increases the risk of specific types of cancer. If people with this disorder have an increased cancer risk, it is only slightly greater than that of the general population."
398,What is (are) progressive osseous heteroplasia ?,"Progressive osseous heteroplasia is a disorder in which bone forms within skin and muscle tissue. Bone that forms outside the skeleton is called heterotopic or ectopic bone. In progressive osseous heteroplasia, ectopic bone formation begins in the deep layers of the skin (dermis and subcutaneous fat) and gradually moves into other tissues such as skeletal muscle and tendons. The bony lesions within the skin may be painful and may develop into open sores (ulcers). Over time, joints can become involved, resulting in impaired mobility.  Signs and symptoms of progressive osseous heteroplasia usually become noticeable during infancy. In some affected individuals, however, this may not occur until later in childhood or in early adulthood."
399,Who is at risk for Hemochromatosis? ?,"Hemochromatosis is one of the most common genetic diseases in the United States. It's most common in Caucasians of Northern European descent. The disease is less common in African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, and American Indians.
                
Primary hemochromatosis is more common in men than in women. Also, older people are more likely to develop the disease than younger people. In fact, signs and symptoms usually don't occur in men until they're 40 to 60 years old.
                
In women, signs and symptoms usually don't occur until after the age of 50 (after menopause). Young children rarely develop hemochromatosis.
                
Inheriting two faulty HFE genes (one from each parent) is the major risk factor for hemochromatosis. However, many people who have two copies of the faulty gene don't develop signs or symptoms of the disease.
                
Alcoholism is another risk factor for hemochromatosis. A family history of certain diseases and conditions also puts you at higher risk for hemochromatosis. Examples of such diseases and conditions include heart attack, liver disease, diabetes, arthritis, and erectile dysfunction (impotence)."
400,What is (are) renal tubular acidosis with deafness ?,"Renal tubular acidosis with deafness is a disorder characterized by kidney (renal) problems and hearing loss. The kidneys normally filter fluid and waste products from the body and remove them in urine; however, in people with this disorder, the kidneys do not remove enough acidic compounds from the body. Instead, the acids are absorbed back into the bloodstream, and the blood becomes too acidic. This chemical imbalance, called metabolic acidosis, can result in a range of signs and symptoms that vary in severity. Metabolic acidosis often causes nausea, vomiting, and dehydration; affected infants tend to have problems feeding and gaining weight (failure to thrive). Most children and adults with renal tubular acidosis with deafness have short stature, and many develop kidney stones.  The metabolic acidosis that occurs in renal tubular acidosis with deafness may also lead to softening and weakening of the bones, called rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults. This bone disorder is characterized by bone pain, bowed legs, and difficulty walking. Rarely, people with renal tubular acidosis with deafness have episodes of hypokalemic paralysis, a condition that causes extreme muscle weakness associated with low levels of potassium in the blood (hypokalemia).  In people with renal tubular acidosis with deafness, hearing loss caused by changes in the inner ear (sensorineural hearing loss) usually begins between childhood and young adulthood, and gradually gets worse. An inner ear abnormality affecting both ears occurs in most people with this disorder. This feature, which is called enlarged vestibular aqueduct, can be seen with medical imaging. The vestibular aqueduct is a bony canal that runs from the inner ear into the temporal bone of the skull and toward the brain. The relationship between enlarged vestibular aqueduct and hearing loss is unclear. In renal tubular acidosis with deafness, enlarged vestibular aqueduct typically occurs in individuals whose hearing loss begins in childhood."
401,Who is at risk for Prostate Cancer? ?,"Scientists don't know exactly what causes prostate cancer. They cannot explain why one man gets prostate cancer and another does not. However, they have been able to identify some risk factors that are associated with the disease. A risk factor is anything that increases your chances of getting a disease. Age Age is the most important risk factor for prostate cancer. The disease is extremely rare in men under age 40, but the risk increases greatly with age. More than 60 percent of cases are diagnosed in men over age 65. The average age at the time of diagnosis is 65. Race Race is another major risk factor. In the United States, this disease is much more common in African American men than in any other group of men. It is least common in Asian and American Indian men. Family History A man's risk for developing prostate cancer is higher if his father or brother has had the disease. Other Risk Factors Scientists have wondered whether obesity, lack of exercise, smoking, radiation exposure, might increase risk. But at this time, there is no firm evidence that these factors contribute to an increased risk."
402,How to diagnose Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome ?,"Is genetic testing available for atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome? GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. To view the contact information for the clinical laboratories conducting testing click here and follow the ""testing"" link pertaining to each gene. Please note:  Most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional.  In the Genetic Services section of this letter we provide a list of online resources that can assist you in locating a genetics professional near you."
403,What is (are) Juvenile osteoporosis ?,"Juvenile osteoporosis is a condition of bone demineralization characterized by pain in the back and extremities, multiple fractures, difficulty walking, and evidence of osteoporosis. Symptoms typically develop just before puberty. Osteoporosis is rare in children and adolescents. When it does occur, it is usually caused by an underlying medical disorder or by medications used to treat the disorder. This is called secondary osteoporosis. Sometimes, however, there is no identifiable cause of osteoporosis in a child. This is known as idiopathic osteoporosis. There is no established medical or surgical therapy for juvenile osteoporosis. In some cases, treatment is not necessary, as the condition resolves spontaneously. Early diagnosis may allow for preventive steps, including physical therapy, avoidance of weight-bearing activities, use of crutches and other supportive care. A well-balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D is also important. In severe, long-lasting cases, medications such as bisphosphonates may be used. In most cases, complete recovery of bone occurs."
404,What is (are) Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer ?,"Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC) is a condition that causes benign tumors of smooth muscle tissue in the skin (cutaneous leiomyomas) and in the uterus in females (uterine leiomyomas, or fibroids). The condition also increases the risk of kidney cancer. Signs and symptoms usually begin in adulthood as skin growths appear on the torso, arms, legs, and occasionally on the face. They tend to increase in size and number over time. About 10% to 16% of people with HLRCC develop a type of kidney cancer called renal cell cancer; symptoms of this cancer may include lower back pain, blood in the urine, and/or a mass in the kidney that can be felt by a physician. Some people have no symptoms until the cancer is advanced. HLRCC is caused by mutations in the FH gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner."
405,What are the treatments for Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease ?,"There is no cure for CMT, but physical therapy, occupational therapy, braces and other orthopedic devices, and orthopedic surgery can help people cope with the disabling symptoms of the disease. In addition, pain-killing drugs can be prescribed for patients who have severe pain."
406,What are the symptoms of Madelung disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Madelung disease? The signs and symptoms of Madelung disease vary from person to person. The condition is characterized by the symmetric growth of fatty tumors (lipomas) around the neck, shoulders, upper arms and/or upper trunk. In some affected people, these fatty deposits may grow rapidly over the course of months, while others experience a slower progression over the course of years. The lipomas can be associated with significant physical deformity and may lead to a loss of neck mobility and pain. In the majority of cases, the disease is benign; however, lipomas can become cancerous in rare circumstances. People with Madelung disease may also develop peripheral neuropathy and neurological disturbances including difficulty swallowing, hoarseness, sleep problems, tachycardia (rapid heart rate), fluctuation in blood pressure, and breathing issues. In some cases, it may be associated with other metabolic abnormalities or diseases such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, and liver disease. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Madelung disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arthralgia 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Multiple lipomas 90% Gait disturbance 50% Hepatomegaly 50% Insulin resistance 50% Paresthesia 50% Abnormality of the skin - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Lipoma - Peripheral neuropathy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
407,Do you have information about Prostate Cancer Screening,"Summary : The prostate is the gland below a man's bladder that produces fluid for semen. Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any symptoms. Cancer found early may be easier to treat.    There is no standard screening test for prostate cancer. Researchers are studying different tests to find those with the fewest risks and most benefits. One test is the digital rectal exam (DRE). The doctor or nurse inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into your rectum to feel the prostate for lumps or anything unusual. Another test is the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) blood test. Your PSA level may be high if you have prostate cancer. It can also be high if you have an enlarged prostate (BPH) or other prostate problems. If your screening results are abnormal, your doctor may do more tests, such as an ultrasound, MRI, or a biopsy.    Prostate cancer screening has risks:       - Finding prostate cancer may not improve your health or help you live longer    - The results can sometimes be wrong    - Follow-up tests, such as a biopsy, may have complications       You and your doctor should discuss your risk for prostate cancer, the pros and cons of the screening tests, and whether you should get them."
408,What are the symptoms of Leber congenital amaurosis 15 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Leber congenital amaurosis 15? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Leber congenital amaurosis 15. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypermetropia 5% Abnormality of color vision - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Constriction of peripheral visual field - Impaired smooth pursuit - Myopia - Nyctalopia - Nystagmus - Optic disc pallor - Pigmentary retinopathy - Retinal degeneration - Rod-cone dystrophy - Slow pupillary light response - Visual impairment - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
409,What is (are) Neuroacanthocytosis ?,"Neuroacanthocytosis refers to a group of genetic conditions that are characterized by movement disorders and acanthocytosis (abnormal, spiculated red blood cells). Four syndromes are classified as neuroacanthocytosis: Chorea-acanthocytosis, McLeod syndrome, Huntington's disease-like 2 (HDL2), and panthothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN). Acanthocytosis may not always be observed in HDL2 and PKAN. These disorders are caused by different genetic mutations, and the signs and symptoms vary, but usually include chorea (involuntary, dance-like movements), parkinsonism (slowness of movement), dystonia (abnormal body postures), and problems walking. There may also be muscle weakness, involuntary movements of the face and tongue, tongue/lip biting (which is mostly characteristic of Chorea-acanthocytosis), as well as difficulty with speech and eating, cognitive impairment, psychiatric symptoms, and seizures. Individuals with McLeod syndrome often have cardiac problems. Many features of these disorders are due to degeneration of the basal ganglia, a part of the brain that controls movement. Additional disorders that are also known have neurologic symptoms, acanthocytosis, and either lipoprotein disorders or systemic findings. The diagnosis of neuroacanthocytosis is typically based on the symptoms and clinical observation, a review of family history, and the evaluation of specific laboratory and imaging studies."
410,What are the genetic changes related to autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome ?,"Mutations in the STAT3 gene cause most cases of AD-HIES. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays an important role in several body systems. To carry out its roles, the STAT3 protein attaches to DNA and helps control the activity of particular genes. In the immune system, the STAT3 protein regulates genes that are involved in the maturation of immune system cells, especially T cells. These cells help control the body's response to foreign invaders such as bacteria and fungi.  Changes in the STAT3 gene alter the structure and function of the STAT3 protein, impairing its ability to control the activity of other genes. A shortage of functional STAT3 blocks the maturation of T cells (specifically a subset known as Th17 cells) and other immune cells. The resulting immune system abnormalities make people with AD-HIES highly susceptible to infections, particularly bacterial and fungal infections of the lungs and skin. The STAT3 protein is also involved in the formation of cells that build and break down bone tissue, which could help explain why STAT3 gene mutations lead to the skeletal and dental abnormalities characteristic of this condition. It is unclear how STAT3 gene mutations lead to increased IgE levels.  When AD-HIES is not caused by STAT3 gene mutations, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown."
411,How many people are affected by capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation syndrome ?,"CM-AVM is thought to occur in at least 1 in 100,000 people of northern European origin. The prevalence of the condition in other populations is unknown."
412,What is the outlook for Myoclonus ?,"Simple forms of myoclonus occur in normal, healthy persons and cause no difficulties. In some cases, myoclonus begins in one region of the body and spreads to muscles in other areas. More severe cases of myoclonus can distort movement and severely limit a person's ability to eat, talk, or walk. These types of myoclonus may indicate an underlying disorder in the brain or nerves. Although clonazepam and sodium valproate are effective in the majority of people with myoclonus, some people have adverse reactions to these drugs. The beneficial effects of clonazepam may diminish over time if the individual develops a tolerance for the drug."
413,What are the treatments for dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Generalized dominant dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Epidermolysis bullosa  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Squamous Cell Skin Cancer   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
414,"What are the genetic changes related to Ohdo syndrome, Say-Barber-Biesecker-Young-Simpson variant ?","The SBBYS variant of Ohdo syndrome is caused by mutations in the KAT6B gene. This gene provides instructions for making a type of enzyme called a histone acetyltransferase. These enzymes modify histones, which are structural proteins that attach (bind) to DNA and give chromosomes their shape. By adding a small molecule called an acetyl group to histones, histone acetyltransferases control the activity of certain genes. Little is known about the function of the histone acetyltransferase produced from the KAT6B gene. It appears to regulate genes that are important for early development, including development of the skeleton and nervous system.  The mutations that cause the SBBYS variant of Ohdo syndrome likely prevent the production of functional histone acetyltransferase from one copy of the KAT6B gene in each cell. Studies suggest that the resulting shortage of this enzyme impairs the regulation of various genes during early development. However, it is unclear how these changes lead to the specific features of the condition."
415,What is (are) Chordoma ?,"A chordoma is a rare tumor that develops from cells of the notochord, a structure that is present in the developing embryo and is important for the development of the spine. The notochord usually disappears before birth, though a few cells may remain embedded in the bones of the spine or at the base of the skull.  Chordomas can occur anywhere along the spine. Approximately half of all chordomas occur at the base of the spine; approximately one third occur at the base of the skull. Chordomas grow slowly, extending gradually into the surrounding bone and soft tissue. The actual symptoms depend on the location of the chordoma. A chordoma at the base of the skull may lead to double vision and headaches. A chordoma that occurs at the base of the spine may cause problems with bladder and bowel function. Chordomas typically occur in adults between the ages of 40 and 70. In many cases, the cause of the chordoma remains unknown. Recent studies have shown that changes in the T gene have been associated with chordoma in a small set of families. In these families an inherited duplication of the T gene is associated with an increased risk of developing chordoma. People with this inherited duplication inherit an increased risk for the condition, not the condition itself."
416,What is (are) Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?,"Adrenal insufficiency is an endocrine, or hormonal, disorder that occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough of certain hormones. The adrenal glands are located just above the kidneys.
                
Adrenal insufficiency can be primary or secondary. Addisons disease, the common term for primary adrenal insufficiency, occurs when the adrenal glands are damaged and cannot produce enough of the adrenal hormone cortisol. The adrenal hormone aldosterone may also be lacking. Addisons disease affects 110 to 144 of every 1 million people in developed countries.1
                
Secondary adrenal insufficiency occurs when the pituitary glanda pea-sized gland at the base of the brainfails to produce enough adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), a hormone that stimulates the adrenal glands to produce the hormone cortisol. If ACTH output is too low, cortisol production drops. Eventually, the adrenal glands can shrink due to lack of ACTH stimulation. Secondary adrenal insufficiency is much more common than Addisons disease.
                

                
1"
417,Is Asperger syndrome inherited ?,"Autism spectrum disorders including Asperger syndrome have a tendency to run in families, but the inheritance pattern is unknown."
418,How many people are affected by 5-alpha reductase deficiency ?,"5-alpha reductase deficiency is a rare condition; the exact incidence is unknown. Large families with affected members have been found in several countries, including the Dominican Republic, Papua New Guinea, Turkey, and Egypt."
419,What is (are) Waardenburg syndrome ?,"Waardenburg syndrome is a group of genetic conditions that can cause hearing loss and changes in coloring (pigmentation) of the hair, skin, and eyes. Although most people with Waardenburg syndrome have normal hearing, moderate to profound hearing loss can occur in one or both ears. The hearing loss is present from birth (congenital). People with this condition often have very pale blue eyes or different colored eyes, such as one blue eye and one brown eye. Sometimes one eye has segments of two different colors. Distinctive hair coloring (such as a patch of white hair or hair that prematurely turns gray) is another common sign of the condition. The features of Waardenburg syndrome vary among affected individuals, even among people in the same family.  The four known types of Waardenburg syndrome are distinguished by their physical characteristics and sometimes by their genetic cause. Types I and II have very similar features, although people with type I almost always have eyes that appear widely spaced and people with type II do not. In addition, hearing loss occurs more often in people with type II than in those with type I. Type III (sometimes called Klein-Waardenburg syndrome) includes abnormalities of the upper limbs in addition to hearing loss and changes in pigmentation. Type IV (also known as Waardenburg-Shah syndrome) has signs and symptoms of both Waardenburg syndrome and Hirschsprung disease, an intestinal disorder that causes severe constipation or blockage of the intestine."
420,How many people are affected by Swyer syndrome ?,"Swyer syndrome occurs in approximately 1 in 80,000 people."
421,What are the symptoms of Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mitochondrial trifunctional protein deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Pigmentary retinopathy 2/16 Abnormality of the amniotic fluid - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congestive heart failure - Dilated cardiomyopathy - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Failure to thrive - Generalized muscle weakness - Hydrops fetalis - Hyperammonemia - Hypoketotic hypoglycemia - Lactic acidosis - Muscular hypotonia - Myoglobinuria - Peripheral neuropathy - Prenatal maternal abnormality - Respiratory failure - Rhabdomyolysis - Small for gestational age - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
422,What are the symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?,"The symptoms of IBS include abdominal pain or discomfort and changes in bowel habits. To meet the definition of IBS, the pain or discomfort should be associated with two of the following three symptoms:
                
- start with bowel movements that occur more or less often than usual  - start with stool that appears looser and more watery or harder and more lumpy than usual  - improve with a bowel movement
                
Other symptoms of IBS may include
                
- diarrheahaving loose, watery stools three or more times a day and feeling urgency to have a bowel movement  - constipationhaving hard, dry stools; two or fewer bowel movements in a week; or straining to have a bowel movement  - feeling that a bowel movement is incomplete  - passing mucus, a clear liquid made by the intestines that coats and protects tissues in the GI tract  - abdominal bloating
                
Symptoms may often occur after eating a meal. To meet the definition of IBS, symptoms must occur at least once per week for at least 2 months."
423,What are the treatments for aniridia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of aniridia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Aniridia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital aniridia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
424,What causes Progressive transformation of germinal centers ?,"What causes progressive transformation of germinal centers?  Is it genetic? The cause of progressive transformation of germinal centers (PTGC) is currently unknown.  Also, there is no evidence in the medical literature that PTGC is a genetic condition."
425,"What is (are) 2,4-Dienoyl-CoA reductase deficiency ?","2,4-Dienoyl-CoA reductase deficiency is associated with hypotonia and respiratory acidosis in infancy. This condition may be associated with the DECR1 gene and likely has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance."
426,How to diagnose Heart Block ?,"Heart block might be diagnosed as part of a routine doctor's visit or during an emergency situation. (Third-degree heart block often is an emergency.)
                
Your doctor will diagnose heart block based on your family and medical histories, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Specialists Involved
                
Your primary care doctor might be involved in diagnosing heart block. However, if you have the condition, you might need to see a heart specialist. Heart specialists include:
                
Cardiologists (doctors who diagnose and treat adults who have heart problems)
                
Pediatric cardiologists (doctors who diagnose and treat babies and children who have heart problems)
                
Electrophysiologists (cardiologists or pediatric cardiologists who specialize in the heart's electrical system)
                
Family and Medical Histories
                
Your doctor may ask whether:
                
You have any signs or symptoms of heart block
                
You have any health problems, such as heart disease
                
Any of your family members have been diagnosed with heart block or other health problems
                
You're taking any medicines, including herbal products and prescription and over-the-counter medicines
                
You smoke or use alcohol or drugs
                
Your doctor also may ask about other health habits, such as how physically active you are.
                
Physical Exam
                
During the physical exam, your doctor will listen to your heart. He or she will listen carefully for abnormal rhythms or heart murmurs (extra or unusual sounds heard during heartbeats).
                
Your doctor also may:
                
Check your pulse to find out how fast your heart is beating
                
Check for swelling in your legs or feet, which could be a sign of an enlarged heart or heart failure
                
Look for signs of other diseases that could be causing heart rate or rhythm problems (such as coronary heart disease)
                
Diagnostic Tests and Procedures
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
Doctors usually use an EKG (electrocardiogram) to help diagnose heart block. This simple test detects and records the heart's electrical activity.
                
An EKG shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). The test also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through the heart.
                
The data are recorded on a graph. Different types of heart block have different patterns on the graph. (For more information, go to ""Types of Heart Block."")
                
A standard EKG only records the heart's activity for a few seconds. To diagnose heart rhythm problems that come and go, your doctor may have you wear a portable EKG monitor.
                
The most common types of portable EKGs are Holter and event monitors. Your doctor may have you use one of these monitors to diagnose first- or second-degree heart block.
                
Holter and Event Monitors
                
A Holter monitor records the heart's electrical signals for a full 24- or 48-hour period. You wear one while you do your normal daily activities. This allows the monitor to record your heart for a longer time than a standard EKG.
                
An event monitor is similar to a Holter monitor. You wear an event monitor while doing your normal activities. However, an event monitor only records your heart's electrical activity at certain times while you're wearing it.
                
You may wear an event monitor for 1 to 2 months, or as long as it takes to get a recording of your heart during symptoms.
                
Electrophysiology Study
                
For some cases of heart block, doctors may do electrophysiology studies (EPS). During this test, a thin, flexible wire is passed through a vein in your groin (upper thigh) or arm to your heart. The wire records your heart's electrical signals.
                
Other Tests
                
To diagnose heart block, your doctor may recommend tests to rule out other types of arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats). For more information, go to ""How Are Arrhythmias Diagnosed?"""
427,What is (are) Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome ?,"Cardiofaciocutaneous (CFC) syndrome is a disorder that affects many parts of the body, particularly the heart (cardio-), face (facio-), and the skin and hair (cutaneous). People with this condition also have developmental delay and intellectual disability, usually ranging from moderate to severe. The signs and symptoms of cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome overlap significantly with those of two other genetic conditions, Costello syndrome and Noonan syndrome. The three syndromes are part of a group of related conditions called the RASopathies and  they are distinguished by their genetic cause and specific patterns of signs and symptoms; however, it can be difficult to tell these conditions apart in infancy. The CFC syndroeme is caused by mutations in the BRAF (75%-80% of the cases), MAP2K1,  MAP2K2 or KRAS gene (in fewer than 5% of the cases). CFC syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition, however, most cases have resulted from new gene mutations and have occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Treatment is symptomatic and may include surgery to correct the heart problems."
428,What are the treatments for Gilbert syndrome ?,"How might Gilbert syndrome be treated? Gilbert syndrome generally doesn't require treatment. The bilirubin levels in the blood may fluctuate over time, causing episodes of jaundice. However, the jaundice is usually mild and goes away on its own. In some cases, doctors may prescribe phenobarbital to lower extremely elevated bilirubin levels and reduce signs of jaundice. Phenobarbital administration usually alleviates signs of jaundice fairly quickly."
429,What are the treatments for SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Renal tubular acidosis, distal, autosomal dominant  - Genetic Testing Registry: Renal tubular acidosis, distal, with hemolytic anemia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
430,What is (are) Lissencephaly ?,"Lissencephaly, which literally means ""smooth brain,"" is a rare, gene-linked brain malformation characterized by the absence of normal convolutions (folds) in the cerebral cortex and an abnormally small head (microcephaly). In the usual condition of lissencephaly, children usually have a normal sized head at birth. In children with reduced head size at birth, the condition microlissencephaly is typically diagnosed. Lissencephaly is caused by defective neuronal migration during embryonic development, the process in which nerve cells move from their place of origin to their permanent location within the cerebral cortex gray matter. Symptoms of the disorder may include unusual facial appearance, difficulty swallowing, failure to thrive, muscle spasms, seizures, and severe psychomotor retardation. Hands, fingers, or toes may be deformed. Lissencephaly may be associated with other diseases including isolated lissencephaly sequence, Miller-Dieker syndrome, and Walker-Warburg syndrome. Sometimes it can be difficult to distinguish between these conditions clinically so consultation with national experts is recommended to help ensure correct diagnosis and possible molecular testing."
431,How many people are affected by X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy ?,"The prevalence of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy is 1 in 20,000 to 50,000 individuals worldwide. This condition occurs with a similar frequency in all populations."
432,What are the treatments for Alzheimer's Disease ?,"Medications Can Treat Symptoms There is no known cure for Alzheimer's disease, but there are medicines that can treat symptoms of the disease. Most Alzheimers medicines work best for people in the mild or moderate stages of the disease. For example, they can keep memory loss from getting worse for a time. Other medicines may help behavioral symptoms, such as trouble sleeping or feeling worried or depressed. All of these medicines may have side effects and may not work for everyone. A person with Alzheimer's should be under a doctor's care. He or she may see a primary care doctor or a specialist, such as a neurologist, geriatric psychiatrist, or geriatrician. The doctor can treat the person's physical and behavioral problems, answer questions, and refer the patient and caregiver to other sources of help. Medications for Alzheimers Currently, no treatment can stop Alzheimer's disease. However, four medications are used to treat its symptoms. These medicines may help maintain thinking, memory, and speaking skills for a limited time. They work by regulating certain chemicals in the brain. Most of these medicines work best for people in the early or middle stages of the disease. For people with mild to moderate Alzheimers, donepezil (Aricept), rivastigmine (Exelon), or galantamine (Razadyne) may help. Donepezil is also approved to treat symptoms of moderate to severe Alzheimer's. Another drug, memantine (Namenda), is used to treat symptoms of moderate to severe Alzheimers, although it also has limited effects. All of these medicines have possible side effects, including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and loss of appetite. You should report any unusual symptoms to a doctor right away. It is important to follow a doctor's instructions when taking any medication. Scientists are testing many new drugs and other treatments to see if they can help slow, delay, or prevent Alzheimers disease. Learn how Alzheimers medications work, how to take them, and where to find more information.  Managing Behavioral Symptoms Certain medicines and other approaches can help control the behavioral symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. These symptoms include sleeplessness, agitation, wandering, anxiety, anger, and depression. Treating these symptoms often makes people with Alzheimers disease more comfortable and makes their care easier for caregivers. See more about medications used to treat behavioral symptoms. Some medicines must be used with caution. Memory Aids Memory aids may help some people who have mild Alzheimers disease with day-to-day living. A calendar, list of daily plans, notes about simple safety measures, and written directions describing how to use common household items can be useful. Help for Caregivers Caring for a person with Alzheimers can have high physical, emotional, and financial costs. The demands of day-to-day care, changing family roles, and difficult decisions about placement in a care facility can be difficult. Sometimes, taking care of the person with Alzheimers makes caregivers feel good because they are providing love and comfort. At other times, it can be overwhelming. Changes in the person can be hard to understand and cope with. Here are some ways for caregivers of people with Alzheimers to get help. - Ask family and friends to help out in specific ways, like making a meal or visiting the person while they take a break.  - Join a caregivers support group.  - Use home health care, adult day care, and respite services. Ask family and friends to help out in specific ways, like making a meal or visiting the person while they take a break. Join a caregivers support group. Use home health care, adult day care, and respite services. For more information about caring for someone with Alzheimers disease, see  Alzheimer's Caregiving."
433,What are the genetic changes related to Wolfram syndrome ?,"Mutations in the WFS1 gene cause more than 90 percent of Wolfram syndrome type 1 cases. This gene provides instructions for producing a protein called wolframin that is thought to regulate the amount of calcium in cells. A proper calcium balance is important for many different cellular functions, including cell-to-cell communication, the tensing (contraction) of muscles, and protein processing. The wolframin protein is found in many different tissues, such as the pancreas, brain, heart, bones, muscles, lung, liver, and kidneys. Within cells, wolframin is located in the membrane of a cell structure called the endoplasmic reticulum that is involved in protein production, processing, and transport. Wolframin's function is important in the pancreas, where the protein is thought to help process a protein called proinsulin into the mature hormone insulin. This hormone helps control blood sugar levels.  WFS1 gene mutations lead to the production of a wolframin protein that has reduced or absent function. As a result, calcium levels within cells are not regulated and the endoplasmic reticulum does not work correctly. When the endoplasmic reticulum does not have enough functional wolframin, the cell triggers its own cell death (apoptosis). The death of cells in the pancreas, specifically cells that make insulin (beta cells), causes diabetes mellitus in people with Wolfram syndrome. The gradual loss of cells along the optic nerve eventually leads to blindness in affected individuals. The death of cells in other body systems likely causes the various signs and symptoms of Wolfram syndrome type 1.  A certain mutation in the CISD2 gene was found to cause Wolfram syndrome type 2. The CISD2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is located in the outer membrane of cell structures called mitochondria. Mitochondria are the energy-producing centers of cells. The exact function of the CISD2 protein is unknown, but it is thought to help keep mitochondria functioning normally.  The CISD2 gene mutation that causes Wolfram syndrome type 2 results in an abnormally small, nonfunctional CISD2 protein. As a result, mitochondria are not properly maintained, and they eventually break down. Since the mitochondria provide energy to cells, the loss of mitochondria results in decreased energy for cells. Cells that do not have enough energy to function will eventually die. Cells with high energy demands such as nerve cells in the brain, eye, or gastrointestinal tract are most susceptible to cell death due to reduced energy. It is unknown why people with CISD2 gene mutations have ulcers and bleeding problems in addition to the usual Wolfram syndrome features.  Some people with Wolfram syndrome do not have an identified mutation in either the WFS1 or CISD2 gene. The cause of the condition in these individuals is unknown."
434,What are the symptoms of Nodular regenerative hyperplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Nodular regenerative hyperplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Nodular regenerative hyperplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hepatic failure 90% Hypertension 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
435,Do you have information about Botox,"Summary : Botox is a drug made from a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. It's the same toxin that causes a life-threatening type of food poisoning called botulism. Doctors use it in small doses to treat health problems, including       - Temporary smoothing of facial wrinkles and improving your appearance    - Severe underarm sweating     - Cervical dystonia - a neurological disorder that causes severe neck and shoulder muscle contractions     - Blepharospasm - uncontrollable blinking     - Strabismus - misaligned eyes     - Chronic migraine    - Overactive bladder       Botox injections work by weakening or paralyzing certain muscles or by blocking certain nerves. The effects last about three to twelve months, depending on what you are treating. The most common side effects are pain, swelling, or bruising at the injection site. You could also have flu-like symptoms, headache, and upset stomach. Injections in the face may also cause temporary drooping eyelids. You should not use Botox if you are pregnant or breastfeeding."
436,What are the genetic changes related to dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"Mutations in the DLD gene cause dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD). DLD is one component of three different groups of enzymes that work together (enzyme complexes): branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase (BCKD), pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH), and alpha ()-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KGDH). The BCKD enzyme complex is involved in the breakdown of three protein building blocks (amino acids) commonly found in protein-rich foods: leucine, isoleucine, and valine. Breakdown of these amino acids produces molecules that can be used for energy. The PDH and KGDH enzyme complexes are involved in other reactions in the pathways that convert the energy from food into a form that cells can use.  Mutations in the DLD gene impair the function of the DLD enzyme, which prevents the three enzyme complexes from functioning properly. As a result, molecules that are normally broken down and their byproducts build up in the body, damaging tissues and leading to lactic acidosis and other chemical imbalances. In addition, the production of cellular energy is diminished. The brain is especially affected by the buildup of molecules and the lack of cellular energy, resulting in the neurological problems associated with dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency. Liver problems are likely also related to decreased energy production in cells. The degree of impairment of each complex contributes to the variability in the features of this condition."
437,What is (are) Restless Legs Syndrome ?,"Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a disorder that causes a strong urge to move your legs. This urge to move often occurs with strange and unpleasant feelings in your legs. Moving your legs relieves the urge and the unpleasant feelings.
                
People who have RLS describe the unpleasant feelings as creeping, crawling, pulling, itching, tingling, burning, aching, or electric shocks. Sometimes, these feelings also occur in the arms.
                
The urge to move and unpleasant feelings happen when you're resting and inactive. Thus, they tend to be worse in the evening and at night.
                
Overview
                
RLS can make it hard to fall asleep and stay asleep. It may make you feel tired and sleepy during the day. This can make it hard to learn, work, and do other daily activities. Not getting enough sleep also can cause depression, mood swings, or other health problems.
                
RLS can range from mild to severe based on:
                
The strength of your symptoms and how often they occur
                
How easily moving around relieves your symptoms
                
How much your symptoms disturb your sleep
                
One type of RLS usually starts early in life (before 45 years of age) and tends to run in families. It may even start in childhood. Once this type of RLS starts, it usually lasts for the rest of your life. Over time, symptoms slowly get worse and occur more often. If you have a mild case, you may have long periods with no symptoms.
                
Another type of RLS usually starts later in life (after 45 years of age). It generally doesn't run in families. This type of RLS tends to have a more abrupt onset. The symptoms usually don't get worse over time.
                
Some diseases, conditions, and medicines may trigger RLS. For example, the disorder has been linked to kidney failure, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, pregnancy, and iron deficiency. When a disease, condition, or medicine causes RLS, the symptoms usually start suddenly.
                
Medical conditions or medicines often cause or worsen the type of RLS that starts later in life.
                
Outlook
                
RLS symptoms often get worse over time. However, some people's symptoms go away for weeks to months.
                
If a medical condition or medicine triggers RLS, the disorder may go away if the trigger is relieved or stopped. For example, RLS that occurs due to pregnancy tends to go away after giving birth. Kidney transplants (but not dialysis) relieve RLS linked to kidney failure.
                
Treatments for RLS include lifestyle changes and medicines. Some simple lifestyle changes often help relieve mild cases of RLS. Medicines often can relieve or prevent the symptoms of more severe RLS.
                
Research is ongoing to better understand the causes of RLS and to find better treatments."
438,What are the symptoms of Balance Problems ?,"Some people may have a balance problem without realizing it. Others might think they have a problem, but are too embarrassed to tell their doctor, friends, or family. Here are common symtoms experienced by people with a balance disorder. Symptoms If you have a balance disorder, you may stagger when you try to walk, or teeter or fall when you try to stand up. You might experience other symptoms such as: - dizziness or vertigo (a spinning sensation)   - falling or feeling as if you are going to fall  - lightheadedness, faintness, or a floating sensation  - blurred vision  - confusion or disorientation. dizziness or vertigo (a spinning sensation) falling or feeling as if you are going to fall lightheadedness, faintness, or a floating sensation blurred vision confusion or disorientation. Other symptoms might include nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, changes in heart rate and blood pressure, and fear, anxiety, or panic. Symptoms may come and go over short time periods or last for a long time, and can lead to fatigue and depression. Diagnosis Can Be Difficult Balance disorders can be difficult to diagnose. Sometimes they are a sign of other health problems, such as those affecting the brain, the heart, or circulation of the blood. People may also find it hard to describe their symptoms to the doctor. Questions to Ask Yourself You can help identify a balance problem by asking yourself some key questions. If you answer ""yes"" to any of these questions, you should discuss the symptom with your doctor. - Do I feel unsteady?   - Do I feel as if the room is spinning around me, even only for brief periods of time?  - Do I feel as if I'm moving when I know I'm standing or sitting still?   - Do I lose my balance and fall?   - Do I feel as if I'm falling?  - Do I feel lightheaded, or as if I might faint?   - Does my vision become blurred?   - Do I ever feel disoriented, losing my sense of time, place, or identity? Do I feel unsteady? Do I feel as if the room is spinning around me, even only for brief periods of time? Do I feel as if I'm moving when I know I'm standing or sitting still? Do I lose my balance and fall? Do I feel as if I'm falling? Do I feel lightheaded, or as if I might faint? Does my vision become blurred? Do I ever feel disoriented, losing my sense of time, place, or identity? Questions to Ask Your Doctor If you think that you have a balance disorder, you should schedule an appointment with your family doctor. You can help your doctor make a diagnosis by writing down key information about your dizziness or balance problem beforehand and giving the information to your doctor during the visit. Tell your doctor as much as you can. Write down answers to these questions for your doctor: - How would you describe your dizziness or balance problem?  -  If it feels like the room is spinning around you, which ways does it appear to turn?  - How often do you have dizziness or balance problems?  - Have you ever fallen?   - If so, when did you fall, where did you fall, and how often have you fallen?  - What medications do you take? Remember to include all over-the-counter medications, including aspirin, antihistamines, and sleep aids.   - What is the name of the medication?  - How much do you take each day?   - What times of the day do you take the medication?  - What is the health condition for which you take the medication?  How would you describe your dizziness or balance problem? If it feels like the room is spinning around you, which ways does it appear to turn? How often do you have dizziness or balance problems? Have you ever fallen? If so, when did you fall, where did you fall, and how often have you fallen? What medications do you take? Remember to include all over-the-counter medications, including aspirin, antihistamines, and sleep aids. What is the name of the medication? How much do you take each day? What times of the day do you take the medication? What is the health condition for which you take the medication? See a video about describing symptoms and health concerns during a doctor visit. Seeing a Specialist Your doctor may refer you to an otolaryngologist. This is a doctor with special training in problems of the ear, nose, throat, head, and neck. The otolaryngologist may ask you for your medical history and perform a physical examination to help figure out the possible causes of the balance disorder. He or she, as well as an audiologist (a person who specializes in assessing hearing and balance disorders), may also perform tests to determine the cause and extent of the problem.  Learn what's involved in visiting a medical specialist."
439,What are the treatments for Urinary Retention ?,"Complications of urinary retention and its treatments may include
                
- UTIs  - bladder damage  - kidney damage  - urinary incontinence after prostate, tumor, or cancer surgery
                
UTIs. Urine is normally sterile, and the normal flow of urine usually prevents bacteria from infecting the urinary tract. With urinary retention, the abnormal urine flow gives bacteria at the opening of the urethra a chance to infect the urinary tract.
                
Bladder damage. If the bladder becomes stretched too far or for long periods, the muscles may be permanently damaged and lose their ability to contract.
                
Kidney damage. In some people, urinary retention causes urine to flow backward into the kidneys. This backward flow, called reflux, may damage or scar the kidneys.
                
Urinary incontinence after prostate, tumor, or cancer surgery. Transurethral surgery to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia may result in urinary incontinence in some men. This problem is often temporary. Most men recover their bladder control in a few weeks or months after surgery. Surgery to remove tumors or cancerous tissue in the bladder, prostate, or urethra may also result in urinary incontinence."
440,How many people are affected by beta thalassemia ?,"Beta thalassemia is a fairly common blood disorder worldwide. Thousands of infants with beta thalassemia are born each year. Beta thalassemia occurs most frequently in people from Mediterranean countries, North Africa, the Middle East, India, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia."
441,What to do for Renal Tubular Acidosis ?,"- Renal tubular acidosis (RTA) is a disease that occurs when the kidneys fail to excrete acids into the urine, which causes a person's blood to remain too acidic.  - Without proper treatment, chronic acidity of the blood leads to growth retardation, kidney stones, bone disease, chronic kidney disease, and possibly total kidney failure.  - If RTA is suspected, additional information about the sodium, potassium, and chloride levels in the urine and the potassium level in the blood will help identify which type of RTA a person has.  - In all cases, the first goal of therapy is to neutralize acid in the blood, but different treatments may be needed to address the different underlying causes of acidosis."
442,What is (are) Diabetic Retinopathy ?,"If you have a lot of blood in the center of the eye, or vitreous gel, you may need a vitrectomy to restore your sight. If you need vitrectomies in both eyes, they are usually done several weeks apart. A vitrectomy is performed under either local or general anesthesia. Your doctor makes a tiny incision in your eye. Next, a small instrument is used to remove the vitreous gel that is clouded with blood. The vitreous gel is replaced with a salt solution. Because the vitreous gel is mostly water, you will notice no change between the salt solution and the original vitreous gel."
443,What is (are) Miller syndrome ?,"Miller syndrome is a rare condition that mainly affects the development of the face and limbs. Characteristic features include underdeveloped cheek bones, a very small lower jaw, cleft lip and/or palate, abnormalities of the eyes, absent fifth (pinky) fingers and toes, and abnormally formed bones in the forearms and lower legs. The severity of the disorder varies among affected individuals. Miller syndrome is caused by mutations in the DHODH gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner."
444,How many people are affected by otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 ?,"Otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 is a rare disorder, affecting fewer than 1 in every 100,000 individuals. Its specific incidence is unknown."
445,What is (are) multiple endocrine neoplasia ?,"Multiple endocrine neoplasia is a group of disorders that affect the body's network of hormone-producing glands (the endocrine system). Hormones are chemical messengers that travel through the bloodstream and regulate the function of cells and tissues throughout the body. Multiple endocrine neoplasia typically involves tumors (neoplasia) in at least two endocrine glands; tumors can also develop in other organs and tissues. These growths can be noncancerous (benign) or cancerous (malignant). If the tumors become cancerous, the condition can be life-threatening.  The major forms of multiple endocrine neoplasia are called type 1, type 2, and type 4. These types are distinguished by the genes involved, the types of hormones made, and the characteristic signs and symptoms.  Many different types of tumors are associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia. Type 1 frequently involves tumors of the parathyroid glands, the pituitary gland, and the pancreas. Tumors in these glands can lead to the overproduction of hormones. The most common sign of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 is overactivity of the parathyroid glands (hyperparathyroidism). Hyperparathyroidism disrupts the normal balance of calcium in the blood, which can lead to kidney stones, thinning of bones, nausea and vomiting, high blood pressure (hypertension), weakness, and fatigue.  The most common sign of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 is a form of thyroid cancer called medullary thyroid carcinoma. Some people with this disorder also develop a pheochromocytoma, which is an adrenal gland tumor that can cause dangerously high blood pressure. Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 is divided into three subtypes: type 2A, type 2B (formerly called type 3), and familial medullary thyroid carcinoma (FMTC). These subtypes differ in their characteristic signs and symptoms and risk of specific tumors; for example, hyperparathyroidism occurs only in type 2A, and medullary thyroid carcinoma is the only feature of FMTC. The signs and symptoms of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 are relatively consistent within any one family.  Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4 appears to have signs and symptoms similar to those of type 1, although it is caused by mutations in a different gene. Hyperparathyroidism is the most common feature, followed by tumors of the pituitary gland, additional endocrine glands, and other organs."
446,What is (are) Serpiginous choroiditis ?,Serpiginous choroiditis is a rare inflammatory eye condition that typically develops between age 30 and 70 years. Affected individuals have lesions in the eye that last from weeks to months and involve scarring of the eye tissue. Recurrence of these lesions is common in serpiginous choroiditis. Vision loss may occur in one or both eyes when the macula is involved. Treatment options involve anti-inflammatory and immune-suppressing medications.
447,What causes Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?,"The causes of IBS are not well understood. Researchers believe a combination of physical and mental health problems can lead to IBS. The possible causes of IBS in children include the following:
                
- Brain-gut signal problems. Signals between the brain and nerves of the small and large intestines, also called the gut, control how the intestines work. Problems with brain-gut signals may cause IBS symptoms, such as changes in bowel habits and pain or discomfort.  - GI motor problems. Normal motility, or movement, may not be present in the colon of a child who has IBS. Slow motility can lead to constipation and fast motility can lead to diarrhea. Spasms, or sudden strong muscle contractions that come and go, can cause abdominal pain. Some children with IBS also experience hyperreactivity, which is an excessive increase in contractions of the bowel in response to stress or eating.  - Hypersensitivity. Children with IBS have greater sensitivity to abdominal pain than children without IBS. Affected children have been found to have different rectal tone and rectal motor response after eating a meal.  - Mental health problems. IBS has been linked to mental health, or psychological, problems such as anxiety and depression in children.  - Bacterial gastroenteritis. Some children who have bacterial gastroenteritisan infection or irritation of the stomach and intestines caused by bacteriadevelop IBS. Research has shown a connection between gastroenteritis and IBS in adults but not in children. But researchers believe postinfectious IBS does occur in children. Researchers do not know why gastroenteritis leads to IBS in some people and not others.  - Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). Normally, few bacteria live in the small intestine. SIBO is an increase in the number of bacteria or a change in the type of bacteria in the small intestine. These bacteria can produce excess gas and may also cause diarrhea and weight loss. Some researchers believe that SIBO may lead to IBS, and some studies have shown antibiotics to be effective in treating IBS. However, the studies were weak and more research is needed to show a link between SIBO and IBS.  - Genetics. Whether IBS has a genetic cause, meaning it runs in families, is unclear. Studies have shown that IBS is more common in people with family members who have a history of GI problems. However, the cause could be environmental or the result of heightened awareness of GI symptoms."
448,What is (are) Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome ?,"Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome (FHCS) is a condition in which a woman has swelling of the tissue covering the liver as a result of having pelvic inflammatory disease (PID).  Symptoms most often include pain in the upper right abdomen just below the ribs, fever, nausea, or vomiting.  The symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease - pain in the lower abdomen and vaginal discharge - are often present as well.  FHCS is usually caused by an infection of chlamydia or gonorrhea that leads to PID; it is not known why PID progresses to FHCS in some women.  Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome is treated with antibiotics."
449,What causes Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ?,"What causes nonalcoholic steatohepatitis? The underlying cause of NASH remains unclear. It most often occurs in persons who are middle-aged and overweight or obese. Many patients with NASH have elevated blood lipids, such as cholesterol and triglycerides, and many have diabetes or prediabetes. However, not every obese person or every patient with diabetes has NASH. Furthermore, some patients with NASH are not obese, do not have diabetes, and have normal blood cholesterol and lipids. NASH can occur without any apparent risk factor and can even occur in children. While the underlying reason for the liver injury that causes NASH is not known, several factors are possible candidates: insulin resistance release of toxic inflammatory proteins by fat cells (cytokines) oxidative stress (deterioration of cells) inside liver cells"
450,What are the genetic changes related to restless legs syndrome ?,"Restless legs syndrome likely results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, many of which are unknown.  Studies suggest that restless legs syndrome is related to a shortage (deficiency) of iron in certain parts of the brain. Iron is involved in several critical activities in brain cells, including the production of a chemical messenger (neurotransmitter) called dopamine. Among its many functions, dopamine triggers signals within the nervous system that help the brain control physical movement. Researchers believe that malfunction of the dopamine signaling system may underlie the abnormal movements in people with restless legs syndrome. However, it is unclear how iron deficiency is related to abnormal dopamine signaling, or how these changes in the brain lead to the particular signs and symptoms of the condition.  Variations in several genes have been studied as risk factors for restless legs syndrome. Most of these genes are thought to be involved in the development of nerve cells (neurons) before birth. It is unclear whether any of the genes play roles in brain iron levels or in dopamine signaling. Variations in known genes appear to account for only a small percentage of the risk of developing restless legs syndrome. Changes in other genes, which have not been identified, probably also contribute to this complex disorder. Researchers suspect that the early-onset form of restless legs syndrome is more likely than the late-onset form to have a genetic basis.  Nongenetic factors are also thought to play a role in restless legs syndrome. For example, several other disorders increase the risk of developing the condition. These include a life-threatening failure of kidney function called end-stage renal disease, diabetes mellitus, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and Parkinson disease. People with low iron levels associated with a shortage of red blood cells (anemia) and women who are pregnant are also more likely to develop restless legs syndrome. In these cases, the condition usually improves or goes away when iron levels increase or after the woman gives birth.  Restless legs syndrome can be triggered by medications, including certain drugs used to treat nausea, depression and other mental health disorders, colds and allergies, heart problems, and high blood pressure. Use of caffeine, nicotine, or alcohol can also trigger restless legs syndrome or make the signs and symptoms worse. In these cases, the condition usually improves or goes away once a person stops using these medications or substances."
451,Is SHORT syndrome inherited ?,"How is SHORT syndrome inherited? SHORT syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant  pattern. For conditions with autosomal dominant inheritance, one abnormal copy of the causative gene in each cell is sufficient to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. The abnormal copy of the gene may be inherited from an affected parent, or it may occur for the first time in an affected individual. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be affected."
452,"What are the symptoms of Coxa vara, congenital ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Coxa vara, congenital? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Coxa vara, congenital. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Coxa vara - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
453,What are the treatments for lymphangioleiomyomatosis ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of LAM:  - Canadian Lung Association  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lymphangiomyomatosis  - Merck Manual for Healthcare Professionals  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is LAM Diagnosed?  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is LAM Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
454,What is (are) microvillus inclusion disease ?,"Microvillus inclusion disease is a condition characterized by chronic, watery, life-threatening diarrhea typically beginning in the first hours to days of life. Rarely, the diarrhea starts around age 3 or 4 months. Food intake increases the frequency of diarrhea.  Microvillus inclusion disease prevents the absorption of nutrients from food during digestion, resulting in malnutrition and dehydration. Affected infants often have difficulty gaining weight and growing at the expected rate (failure to thrive), developmental delay, liver and kidney problems, and thinning of the bones (osteoporosis). Some affected individuals develop cholestasis, which is a reduced ability to produce and release a digestive fluid called bile. Cholestasis leads to irreversible liver disease (cirrhosis).  In individuals with microvillus inclusion disease, lifelong nutritional support is needed and given through intravenous feedings (parenteral nutrition). Even with nutritional supplementation, most children with microvillus inclusion disease do not survive beyond childhood.  A variant of microvillus inclusion disease with milder diarrhea often does not require full-time parenteral nutrition. Individuals with the variant type frequently live past childhood."
455,How many people are affected by Lesch-Nyhan syndrome ?,"The prevalence of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is approximately 1 in 380,000 individuals. This condition occurs with a similar frequency in all populations."
456,What causes Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency ?,"What causes alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency? Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene. This gene gives the body instructions to make a protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT), which protects the body from an enzyme called neutrophil elastase. Neutrophil elastase helps the body fight infections, but it can also attack healthy tissues (especially the lungs) if not controlled by AAT. Mutations that cause AAT can cause a deficiency or absence of AAT, or a form of AAT that does not work well. This allows neutrophil elastase to destroy lung tissue, causing lung disease. In addition, abnormal AAT can build up in the liver and cause damage to the liver. The severity of AATD may also be worsened by environmental factors such as exposure to tobacco smoke, dust, and chemicals."
457,What are the genetic changes related to dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia ?,"Mutations in the GATA1 gene cause dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia. The GATA1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that attaches (binds) to specific regions of DNA and helps control the activity of many other genes. On the basis of this action, the GATA1 protein is known as a transcription factor. The GATA1 protein is involved in the specialization (differentiation) of immature blood cells. To function properly, these immature cells must differentiate into specific types of mature blood cells. Through its activity as a transcription factor and its interactions with other proteins, the GATA1 protein regulates the growth and division (proliferation) of immature red blood cells and platelet-precursor cells (megakaryocytes) and helps with their differentiation.  GATA1 gene mutations disrupt the protein's ability to bind with DNA or interact with other proteins. These impairments in the GATA1 protein's normal function result in an increased proliferation of megakaryocytes and a decrease in mature platelets, leading to abnormal bleeding. An abnormal GATA1 protein causes immature red blood cells to undergo a form of programmed cell death called apoptosis. A lack of immature red blood cells results in decreased amounts of specialized, mature red blood cells, leading to anemia. The severity of dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia can usually be predicted by the type of GATA1 gene mutation.  When the two blood disorders dyserythropoietic anemia and thrombocytopenia occur separately, each of the conditions can result from many different factors. The occurrence of these disorders together is characteristic of mutations in the GATA1 gene."
458,What are the stages of Merkel Cell Carcinoma ?,"Key Points
                    - After Merkel cell carcinoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread to other parts of the body.    - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for Merkel cell carcinoma:          - Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)     - Stage IA     - Stage IB     - Stage IIA     - Stage IIB     - Stage IIC     - Stage IIIA     - Stage IIIB     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After Merkel cell carcinoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.    The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process:         -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. A CT scan of the chest and abdomen may be used to check for primary small cell lung cancer, or to find Merkel cell carcinoma that has spread. A CT scan of the head and neck may also be used to find Merkel cell carcinoma that has spread to the lymph nodes. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.    -  Lymph node biopsy : There are two main types of lymph node biopsy used to stage Merkel cell carcinoma.               -  Sentinel lymph node biopsy : The removal of the sentinel lymph node during surgery. The sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node to receive lymphatic drainage from a tumor. It is the first lymph node the cancer is likely to spread to from the tumor. A radioactive substance and/or blue dye is injected near the tumor. The substance or dye flows through the lymph ducts to the lymph nodes. The first lymph node to receive the substance or dye is removed. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are not found, it may not be necessary to remove more lymph nodes.      -  Lymph node dissection : A surgical procedure in which the lymph nodes are removed and a sample of tissue is checked under a microscope for signs of cancer. For a regional lymph node dissection, some of the lymph nodes in the tumor area are removed. For a radical lymph node dissection, most or all of the lymph nodes in the tumor area are removed. This procedure is also called lymphadenectomy.             -   Immunohistochemistry : A test that uses antibodies to check for certain antigens in a sample of tissue. The antibody is usually linked to a radioactive substance or a dye that causes the tissue to light up under a microscope. This type of test may be used to tell the difference between different types of cancer.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if Merkel cell carcinoma spreads to the liver, the cancer cells in the liver are actually cancerous Merkel cells. The disease is metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma, not liver cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for Merkel cell carcinoma:
                    Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)    In stage 0, the tumor is a group of abnormal cells that remain in the place where they first formed and have not spread. These abnormal cells may become cancer and spread to lymph nodes or distant parts of the body.       Stage IA    In stage IA, the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller at its widest point and no cancer is found when the lymph nodes are checked under a microscope.       Stage IB    In stage IB, the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller at its widest point and no swollen lymph nodes are found by a physical exam or imaging tests.       Stage IIA    In stage IIA, the tumor is larger than 2 centimeters and no cancer is found when the lymph nodes are checked under a microscope.       Stage IIB    In stage IIB, the tumor is larger than 2 centimeters and no swollen lymph nodes are found by a physical exam or imaging tests.       Stage IIC    In stage IIC, the tumor may be any size and has spread to nearby bone, muscle, connective tissue, or cartilage. It has not spread to lymph nodes or distant parts of the body.       Stage IIIA    In stage IIIA, the tumor may be any size and may have spread to nearby bone, muscle, connective tissue, or cartilage. Cancer is found in the lymph nodes when they are checked under a microscope.       Stage IIIB    In stage IIIB, the tumor may be any size and may have spread to nearby bone, muscle, connective tissue, or cartilage. Cancer has spread to the lymph nodes near the tumor and is found by a physical exam or imaging test. The lymph nodes are removed and cancer is found in the lymph nodes when they are checked under a microscope. There may also be a second tumor, which is either:            - Between the primary tumor and nearby lymph nodes; or     - Farther away from the center of the body than the primary tumor is.              Stage IV    In stage IV, the tumor may be any size and has spread to distant parts of the body, such as the liver, lung, bone, or brain."
459,What causes Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?,"Experts do not know the exact cause of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. About 25 to 30 percent of gastrinomas are caused by an inherited genetic disorder called multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).1 MEN1 causes hormone-releasing tumors in the endocrine glands and the duodenum. Symptoms of MEN1 include increased hormone levels in the blood, kidney stones, diabetes, muscle weakness, weakened bones, and fractures.
                
More information about MEN1 is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1."
460,What are the symptoms of 8q12 microduplication syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of 8q12 microduplication syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 8q12 microduplication syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Blepharophimosis 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Highly arched eyebrow 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Strabismus 90% Ventricular septal defect 90% Abnormality of calvarial morphology 50% Abnormality of the cranial nerves 50% Atria septal defect 50% Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Epicanthus 50% Long philtrum 50% Narrow mouth 50% Short toe 50% Telecanthus 50% Vesicoureteral reflux 50% Wide nasal bridge 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
461,How many people are affected by Diamond-Blackfan anemia ?,Diamond-Blackfan anemia affects approximately 5 to 7 per million liveborn infants worldwide.
462,What is (are) Hypokalemic periodic paralysis ?,"Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is a condition that causes episodes of extreme muscle weakness typically beginning in childhood or adolescence. Most often, these episodes involve a temporary inability to move muscles in the arms and legs. The duration and frequency of the episodes may vary. Hypokalemic periodic paralysis is caused by mutations in the CACNA1S and SCN4A genes which are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. A small percentage of people with the characteristic features of hypokalemic periodic paralysis do not have identified mutations in these genes. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown. Paralytic crises can be treated with oral or IV potassium. Other management includes prevention of crises and support of specific symptoms."
463,What are the genetic changes related to Gaucher disease ?,"Mutations in the GBA gene cause Gaucher disease. The GBA gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called beta-glucocerebrosidase. This enzyme breaks down a fatty substance called glucocerebroside into a sugar (glucose) and a simpler fat molecule (ceramide). Mutations in the GBA gene greatly reduce or eliminate the activity of beta-glucocerebrosidase. Without enough of this enzyme, glucocerebroside and related substances can build up to toxic levels within cells. Tissues and organs are damaged by the abnormal accumulation and storage of these substances, causing the characteristic features of Gaucher disease."
464,What is (are) Glanzmann thrombasthenia ?,"Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT) is a rare inherited blood clotting disorder that is present at birth. It is characterized by the impaired function of specialized blood cells, called platelets, that are essential for proper blood clotting. Signs and symptoms vary greatly from person to person. Symptoms usually include abnormal bleeding, which can be severe. Other symptoms may include easy bruising, nose bleeds, bleeding from the gums, and/or heavy menstrual bleeding. Rarely, internal bleeding and blood in the urine (hematuria) can occur. Prolonged untreated or unsuccessfully treated bleeding may be life threatening. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in either the ITGA2B or ITGB3 genes."
465,What are the symptoms of Acinetobacter in Healthcare Settings ?,"Acinetobacter causes a variety of diseases, ranging from pneumonia to serious blood or wound infections, and the symptoms vary depending on the disease. Acinetobacter may also “colonize” or live in a patient without causing infection or symptoms, especially in tracheostomy sites or open wounds."
466,How many people are affected by Legg-Calv-Perthes disease ?,"The incidence of Legg-Calv-Perthes disease varies by population. The condition is most common in white populations, in which it affects an estimated 1 to 3 in 20,000 children under age 15."
467,Do you have information about Acupuncture,"Summary : Acupuncture has been practiced in China and other Asian countries for thousands of years. Acupuncture involves stimulating specific points on the body. This is most often done by inserting thin needles through the skin, to cause a change in the physical functions of the body.    Research has shown that acupuncture reduces nausea and vomiting after surgery and chemotherapy. It can also relieve pain. Researchers don't fully understand how acupuncture works. It might aid the activity of your body's pain-killing chemicals. It also might affect how you release chemicals that regulate blood pressure and flow.    NIH: National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health"
468,What is (are) Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ?,"Human T-cell leukemia virus, type 1 (HTLV-1) is a retroviral infection that affect the T cells (a type of white blood cell). Although this virus generally causes no signs or symptoms, some affected people may later develop adult T-cell leukemia (ATL), HTLV-1 associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) or other medical conditions. HTLV-1 is spread by blood transfusions, sexual contact and sharing needles. It can also be spread from mother to child during birth or breast-feeding. There is no cure or treatment for HTLV-1 and it is considered a lifelong condition; however, most (95%) infected people remain asymptomatic (show no symptoms) throughout life."
469,What causes Alport syndrome ?,"What causes Alport syndrome? Alport syndrome may be caused by mutations in either the COL4A3, COL4A4, or COL4A5 genes. These genes each provide instructions for making one component of a protein called type IV collagen, which plays an important role in the glomeruli of the kidneys. Glomeruli are clusters of specialized blood vessels that remove water and waste products from the blood and create urine. Mutations in the genes mentioned above result in abnormalities of the type IV collagen in glomeruli, which prevents the kidneys from properly filtering the blood. As a result, blood and protein pass into the urine. Over time, the kidneys become scarred and many people with Alport syndrome develop kidney failure. Type IV collagen is also an important component of the organ of Corti, an inner ear structure that transforms sound waves into nerve impulses for the brain. Alterations in type IV collagen may result in abnormal inner ear function, which can lead to hearing loss. In addition, type IV collagen plays a role in the eye, where it helps maintain the shape of the lens and the normal color of the retina. Mutations found in Alport syndrome may affect the shape of the lenses and the color of the retina."
470,What are the genetic changes related to boomerang dysplasia ?,"Mutations in the FLNB gene cause boomerang dysplasia. The FLNB gene provides instructions for making a protein called filamin B. This protein helps build the network of protein filaments (cytoskeleton) that gives structure to cells and allows them to change shape and move. Filamin B attaches (binds) to another protein called actin and helps the actin to form the branching network of filaments that makes up the cytoskeleton. It also links actin to many other proteins to perform various functions within the cell, including the cell signaling that helps determine how the cytoskeleton will change as tissues grow and take shape during development.  Filamin B is especially important in the development of the skeleton before birth. It is active (expressed) in the cell membranes of cartilage-forming cells (chondrocytes). Cartilage is a tough, flexible tissue that makes up much of the skeleton during early development. Most cartilage is later converted to bone (a process called ossification), except for the cartilage that continues to cover and protect the ends of bones and is present in the nose, airways (trachea and bronchi), and external ears. Filamin B appears to be important for normal cell growth and division (proliferation) and maturation (differentiation) of chondrocytes and for the ossification of cartilage.  FLNB gene mutations that cause boomerang dysplasia change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in the filamin B protein or delete a small section of the protein sequence, resulting in an abnormal protein. This abnormal protein appears to have a new, atypical function that interferes with the proliferation or differentiation of chondrocytes, impairing ossification and leading to the signs and symptoms of boomerang dysplasia."
471,Is renal tubular acidosis with deafness inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
472,What are the treatments for Ulcerative Colitis ?,"A health care provider treats ulcerative colitis with
                
- medications  - surgery
                
Which treatment a person needs depends on the severity of the disease and the symptoms. Each person experiences ulcerative colitis differently, so health care providers adjust treatments to improve the person's symptoms and induce, or bring about, remission.
                
Medications
                
While no medication cures ulcerative colitis, many can reduce symptoms. The goals of medication therapy are
                
- inducing and maintaining remission  - improving the person's quality of life
                
Many people with ulcerative colitis require medication therapy indefinitely, unless they have their colon and rectum surgically removed.
                
Health care providers will prescribe the medications that best treat a person's symptoms:
                
- aminosalicylates  - corticosteroids  - immunomodulators  - biologics, also called anti-TNF therapies  - other medications
                
Depending on the location of the symptoms in the colon, health care providers may recommend a person take medications by
                
- enema, which involves flushing liquid medication into the rectum using a special wash bottle. The medication directly treats inflammation of the large intestine.  - rectal foama foamy substance the person puts into the rectum like an enema. The medication directly treats inflammation of the large intestine.  - suppositorya solid medication the person inserts into the rectum to dissolve. The intestinal lining absorbs the medication.  - mouth.  - IV.
                
Aminosalicylates are medications that contain 5-aminosalicyclic acid (5-ASA), which helps control inflammation. Health care providers typically use aminosalicylates to treat people with mild or moderate symptoms or help people stay in remission. Aminosalicylates can be prescribed as an oral medication or a topical medicationby enema or suppository. Combination therapyoral and rectalis most effective, even in people with extensive ulcerative colitis.5 Aminosalicylates are generally well tolerated.
                
Aminosalicylates include
                
- balsalazide  - mesalamine  - olsalazine  - sulfasalazinea combination of sulfapyridine and 5-ASA
                
Some of the common side effects of aminosalicylates include
                
- abdominal pain  - diarrhea  - headaches  - nausea
                
Health care providers may order routine blood tests for kidney function, as aminosalicylates can cause a rare allergic reaction in the kidneys.
                
Corticosteroids, also known as steroids, help reduce the activity of the immune system and decrease inflammation. Health care providers prescribe corticosteroids for people with more severe symptoms and people who do not respond to aminosalicylates. Health care providers do not typically prescribe corticosteroids for long-term use.
                
Corticosteroids are effective in bringing on remission; however, studies have not shown that the medications help maintain long-term remission. Corticosteroids include
                
- budesonide  - hydrocortisone  - methylprednisone  - prednisone
                
Side effects of corticosteroids include
                
- acne  - a higher chance of developing infections  - bone mass loss  - death of bone tissue  - high blood glucose  - high blood pressure  - mood swings  - weight gain
                
People who take budesonide may have fewer side effects than with other steroids.
                
Immunomodulators reduce immune system activity, resulting in less inflammation in the colon. These medications can take several weeks to 3 months to start working. Immunomodulators include
                
- azathioprine  - 6-mercaptopurine, or 6-MP
                
Health care providers prescribe these medications for people who do not respond to 5-ASAs. People taking these medications may have the following side effects:
                
- abnormal liver tests  - feeling tired  - infection  - low white blood cell count, which can lead to a higher chance of infection  - nausea and vomiting  - pancreatitis  - slightly increased chance of lymphoma  - slightly increased chance of nonmelanoma skin cancers
                
Health care providers routinely test blood counts and liver function of people taking immunomodulators. People taking these medications should also have yearly skin cancer exams.
                
People should talk with their health care provider about the risks and benefits of immunomodulators.
                
Biologicsincluding adalimumab, golimumab, infliximab, and vedolizumabare medications that target a protein made by the immune system called tumor necrosis factor (TNF). These medications decrease inflammation in the large intestine by neutralizing TNF. Anti-TNF therapies work quickly to bring on remission, especially in people who do not respond to other medications. Infliximab and vedolizumab are given through an IV; adalimumab and golimumab are given by injection.
                
Health care providers will screen patients for tuberculosis and hepatitis B before starting treatment with anti-TNF medications.
                
Side effects of anti-TNF medications may include
                
- a higher chance of developing infectionsespecially tuberculosis or fungal infection  - skin cancermelanoma  - psoriasis
                
Other medications to treat symptoms or complications may include
                
- acetaminophen for mild pain. People with ulcerative colitis should avoid using ibuprofen, naproxen, and aspirin since these medications can make symptoms worse.  - antibiotics to prevent or treat infections.  - loperamide to help slow or stop diarrhea. In most cases, people only take this medication for short periods of time since it can increase the chance of developing megacolon. People should check with a health care provider before taking loperamide, because those with significantly active ulcerative colitis should not take this medication.6  - cyclosporinehealth care providers prescribe this medication only for people with severe ulcerative colitis because of the side effects. People should talk with their health care provider about the risks and benefits of cyclosporine.
                
Surgery
                
Some people will need surgery to treat their ulcerative colitis when they have
                
- colon cancer  - dysplasia, or precancerous cells in the colon  - complications that are life threatening, such as megacolon or bleeding  - no improvement in symptoms or condition despite treatment  - continued dependency on steroids  - side effects from medications that threaten their health
                
Removal of the entire colon, including the rectum, ""cures"" ulcerative colitis. A surgeon performs the procedure at a hospital. A surgeon can perform two different types of surgery to remove a patient's colon and treat ulcerative colitis:
                
- proctocolectomy and ileostomy  - proctocolectomy and ileoanal reservoir
                
Full recovery from both operations may take 4 to 6 weeks.
                
Proctocolectomy and ileostomy. A proctocolectomy is surgery to remove a patient's entire colon and rectum. An ileostomy is a stoma, or opening in the abdomen, that a surgeon creates from a part of the ileumthe last section of the small intestine. The surgeon brings the end of the ileum through an opening in the patient's abdomen and attaches it to the skin, creating an opening outside of the patient's body. The stoma most often is located in the lower part of the patient's abdomen, just below the beltline.
                
A removable external collection pouch, called an ostomy pouch or ostomy appliance, connects to the stoma and collects intestinal contents outside the patient's body. Intestinal contents pass through the stoma instead of passing through the anus. The stoma has no muscle, so it cannot control the flow of intestinal contents, and the flow occurs whenever peristalsis occurs. Peristalsis is the movement of the organ walls that propels food and liquid through the GI tract.
                
People who have this type of surgery will have the ileostomy for the rest of their lives.
                
Proctocolectomy and ileoanal reservoir. An ileoanal reservior is an internal pouch made from the patient's ileum. This surgery is a common alternative to an ileostomy and does not have a permanent stoma. Ileoanal reservoir is also known as a J-pouch, a pelvic pouch, or an ileoanal pouch anastamosis. The ileoanal reservior connects the ileum to the anus. The surgeon preserves the outer muscles of the patient's rectum during the proctocolectomy. Next, the surgeon creates the ileal pouch and attaches it to the end of the rectum. Waste is stored in the pouch and passes through the anus.
                
After surgery, bowel movements may be more frequent and watery than before the procedure. People may have fecal incontinencethe accidental passing of solid or liquid stool or mucus from the rectum. Medications can be used to control pouch function. Women may be infertile following the surgery.
                
Many people develop pouchitis in the ileoanal reservoir. Pouchitis is an irritation or inflammation of the lining of the ileoanal reservoir. A health care provider treats pouchitis with antibiotics. Rarely, pouchitis can become chronic and require long-term antibiotics or other medications.
                
The surgeon will recommend one of the operations based on a person's symptoms, severity of disease, expectations, age, and lifestyle. Before making a decision, the person should get as much information as possible by talking with
                
- health care providers  - enterostomal therapists, nurses who work with colon-surgery patients  - people who have had one of the surgeries
                
Patient-advocacy organizations can provide information about support groups and other resources.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, ostomy surgery."
473,What are the symptoms of Cobb syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Cobb syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cobb syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arteriovenous malformation 90% Arthralgia 90% Bone pain 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Hyperreflexia 90% Lymphangioma 90% Morphological abnormality of the central nervous system 90% Visceral angiomatosis 90% Hyperkeratosis 50% Multiple lipomas 50% Abnormality of the urinary system 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Gangrene 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
474,What are the symptoms of Distal myopathy with vocal cord weakness ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Distal myopathy with vocal cord weakness? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Distal myopathy with vocal cord weakness. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Dementia 5% Distal sensory impairment 5% Abnormal lower motor neuron morphology - Abnormal upper motor neuron morphology - Abnormality of the nasopharynx - Adult onset - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - Aspiration - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bowing of the vocal cords - Bulbar palsy - Bulbar signs - Decreased nerve conduction velocity - Distal muscle weakness - Dysarthria - Dysphagia - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Hoarse voice - Hyperreflexia - Respiratory insufficiency due to muscle weakness - Rimmed vacuoles - Shoulder girdle muscle weakness - Variable expressivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
475,Is Jejunal atresia inherited ?,"Is jejunal atresia inherited? Most cases of jejunal atresia occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. However, it can rarely affect more than one family member. In these families, jejunal atresia is likely due to a genetic cause and appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive or multifactorial manner."
476,"Is Blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome type 1 inherited ?","If my daughter inherits BPES from me, will she definitely have the same type as me, or could she have the other type? More than 130 mutations (changes) in the FOXL2 gene have been found to cause BPES. It has been reported that mutations that lead to a significantly shortened FOXL2 protein often cause BPES type I (characterized by eyelid malformations and premature ovarian failure (POF)), while mutations that result in an extra long FOXL2 protein may cause BPES type II (which involves only eyelid malformations). However, in a study published in 2003 in the American Journal of Human Genetics, the authors discussed how their study was the first to demonstrate intra- and interfamilial phenotypic variability (i.e. both BPES types caused by the same mutation). They discuss how assigning an affected family a diagnosis of either BPES type I or II is not always possible because of this. The article also discusses a previous report of menstrual abnormalities and reduced female fertility in two families with BPES type II, suggesting overlap between both BPES types, as well as a report of a family with BPES type I in which the first generations of affected females are infertile while three affected young women in the youngest generation appear to have normal pelvic ultrasound and hormone levels. They do caution that in this family, the early age of the affected women may preclude an accurate prediction of whether they will have POF, since the onset of POF usually occurs at a later age. Approximately 12 percent of people with BPES do not have an identified FOXL2 gene mutation; the cause of the condition in these people is unknown, and therefore there is no information on whether there may be variation within families for these affected individuals."
477,Is Cohen syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
478,What causes Turner syndrome ?,"What causes Turner syndrome? Turner syndrome is caused by partial or complete loss of one of the X chromosomes in cells of females. Females without Turner syndrome have 2 full X chromosome in all of their cells (and males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome). The missing genetic material affects development before and after birth. Most females with Turner syndrome are missing a full X chromosome in all of their cells (also called monosomy X). This form results from a random error in an egg or sperm cell prior to conception. Some females with Turner syndrome have two X chromosomes, but one of them is missing a piece (has a deletion). Depending on the specific gene(s) that are missing, the features of Turner syndrome may result. A deletion may occur sporadically (not inherited) or may be inherited from a parent. Mosaic Turner syndrome (when some cells have one X chromosome and some have two sex chromosomes) is caused by a random error in early fetal development (shortly after conception). It is still unclear exactly which genes on the X chromosome are associated with each feature of Turner syndrome. It is known that the SHOX gene on the X chromosome is important for growth and bone development. A missing copy of this gene is thought to result in the short stature and skeletal abnormalities in many affected women."
479,What is (are) Dandy-Walker malformation ?,"Dandy-Walker malformation affects brain development, primarily development of the cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that coordinates movement. In individuals with this condition, various parts of the cerebellum develop abnormally, resulting in malformations that can be observed with medical imaging. The central part of the cerebellum (the vermis) is absent or very small and may be abnormally positioned. The right and left sides of the cerebellum may be small as well. In affected individuals, a fluid-filled cavity between the brainstem and the cerebellum (the fourth ventricle) and the part of the skull that contains the cerebellum and the brainstem (the posterior fossa) are abnormally large. These abnormalities often result in problems with movement, coordination, intellect, mood, and other neurological functions.  In the majority of individuals with Dandy-Walker malformation, signs and symptoms caused by abnormal brain development are present at birth or develop within the first year of life. Some children have a buildup of fluid in the brain (hydrocephalus) that may cause increased head size (macrocephaly). Up to half of affected individuals have intellectual disability that ranges from mild to severe, and those with normal intelligence may have learning disabilities. Children with Dandy-Walker malformation often have delayed development, particularly a delay in motor skills such as crawling, walking, and coordinating movements. People with Dandy-Walker malformation may experience muscle stiffness and partial paralysis of the lower limbs (spastic paraplegia), and they may also have seizures. While rare, hearing and vision problems can be features of this condition.  Less commonly, other brain abnormalities have been reported in people with Dandy-Walker malformation. These abnormalities include an underdeveloped or absent tissue connecting the left and right halves of the brain (agenesis of the corpus callosum), a sac-like protrusion of the brain through an opening at the back of the skull (occipital encephalocele), or a failure of some nerve cells (neurons) to migrate to their proper location in the brain during development. These additional brain malformations are associated with more severe signs and symptoms.  Dandy-Walker malformation typically affects only the brain, but problems in other systems can include heart defects, malformations of the urogenital tract, extra fingers or toes (polydactyly) or fused fingers or toes (syndactyly), or abnormal facial features.  In 10 to 20 percent of people with Dandy-Walker malformation, signs and symptoms of the condition do not appear until late childhood or into adulthood. These individuals typically have a different range of features than those affected in infancy, including headaches, an unsteady walking gait, paralysis of facial muscles (facial palsy), increased muscle tone, muscle spasms, and mental and behavioral changes. Rarely, people with Dandy-Walker malformation have no health problems related to the condition.  Problems related to hydrocephalus or complications of its treatment are the most common cause of death in people with Dandy-Walker malformation."
480,What are the symptoms of Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome? Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is primarily characterized by orthostatic intolerance (an excessively reduced volume of blood returns to the heart when moving from a lying down to a standing position). Orthostatic Intolerance is generally associated with lightheadedness and/or fainting that is typically relieved by lying down again. In people with POTS, these symptoms are also accompanied by a rapid increase in heartbeat. Other symptoms reported in POTS include: Visual changes (i.e. blurry vision) Throbbing of the head Poor concentration Tiredness Gastrointestinal symptoms (i.e. nausea, cramps, bloating, constipation, diarrhea) Shortness of breath Head, neck and/or chest discomfort Weakness Sleep disorders Exercise intolerance Sweating Anxiety"
481,What is (are) Holt-Oram syndrome ?,"Holt-Oram syndrome is characterized by skeletal abnormalities of the hands and arms (upper limbs) and heart problems.  People with Holt-Oram syndrome have abnormally developed bones in their upper limbs. At least one abnormality in the bones of the wrist (carpal bones) is present in affected individuals. Often, these wrist bone abnormalities can be detected only by x-ray. Individuals with Holt-Oram syndrome may have additional bone abnormalities including a missing thumb, a long thumb that looks like a finger, partial or complete absence of bones in the forearm, an underdeveloped bone of the upper arm, and abnormalities of the collar bone or shoulder blades. These skeletal abnormalities may affect one or both of the upper limbs. If both upper limbs are affected, the bone abnormalities can be the same or different on each side. In cases where the skeletal abnormalities are not the same on both sides of the body, the left side is usually more severely affected than the right side.  About 75 percent of individuals with Holt-Oram syndrome have heart (cardiac) problems, which can be life-threatening. The most common problem is a defect in the muscular wall (septum) that separates the right and left sides of the heart. A hole in the septum between the upper chambers of the heart (atria) is called an atrial septal defect (ASD), and a hole in the septum between the lower chambers of the heart (ventricles) is called a ventricular septal defect (VSD). Some people with Holt-Oram syndrome have cardiac conduction disease, which is caused by abnormalities in the electrical system that coordinates contractions of the heart chambers. Cardiac conduction disease can lead to problems such as a slower-than-normal heart rate (bradycardia) or a rapid and uncoordinated contraction of the heart muscle (fibrillation). Cardiac conduction disease can occur along with other heart defects (such as ASD or VSD) or as the only heart problem in people with Holt-Oram syndrome.  The features of Holt-Oram syndrome are similar to those of a condition called Duane-radial ray syndrome; however, these two disorders are caused by mutations in different genes."
482,What are the symptoms of Urachal cyst ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of a urachal cyst? In most cases, urachal cysts are not associated with any signs or symptoms unless there are complications such as infection. Possible symptoms vary, but may include: Lower abdominal pain Fever Abdominal lump or mass Pain with urination Urinary tract infection Hematuria"
483,Is factor XIII deficiency inherited ?,"Inherited factor XIII deficiency is considered to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means that it results when both copies of either the F13A1 gene or the F13B gene in each cell have mutations.  Some people, including parents of individuals with factor XIII deficiency, carry a single mutated copy of the F13A1 or F13B gene in each cell. These mutation carriers have a reduced amount of factor XIII in their bloodstream (20 to 60 percent of normal), and they may experience abnormal bleeding after surgery, dental work, or major trauma. However, most people who carry one mutated copy of the F13A1 or F13B gene do not have abnormal bleeding episodes under normal circumstances, and so they never come to medical attention.  The acquired form of factor XIII deficiency is not inherited and does not run in families."
484,Is ataxia with oculomotor apraxia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
485,What is (are) Testicular Disorders ?,"Testicles, or testes, make male hormones and sperm. They are two egg-shaped organs inside the scrotum, the loose sac of skin behind the penis. It's easy to injure your testicles because they are not protected by bones or muscles. Men and boys should wear athletic supporters when they play sports.     You should examine your testicles monthly and seek medical attention for lumps, redness, pain or other changes. Testicles can get inflamed or infected. They can also develop cancer. Testicular cancer is rare and highly treatable. It usually happens between the ages of 15 and 40."
486,What are the genetic changes related to Sandhoff disease ?,"Mutations in the HEXB gene cause Sandhoff disease. The HEXB gene provides instructions for making a protein that is part of two critical enzymes in the nervous system, beta-hexosaminidase A and beta-hexosaminidase B. These enzymes are located in lysosomes, which are structures in cells that break down toxic substances and act as recycling centers. Within lysosomes, these enzymes break down fatty substances, complex sugars, and molecules that are linked to sugars. In particular, beta-hexosaminidase A helps break down a fatty substance called GM2 ganglioside.  Mutations in the HEXB gene disrupt the activity of beta-hexosaminidase A and beta-hexosaminidase B, which prevents these enzymes from breaking down GM2 ganglioside and other molecules. As a result, these compounds can accumulate to toxic levels, particularly in neurons of the brain and spinal cord. A buildup of GM2 ganglioside leads to the progressive destruction of these neurons, which causes many of the signs and symptoms of Sandhoff disease.  Because Sandhoff disease impairs the function of lysosomal enzymes and involves the buildup of GM2 ganglioside, this condition is sometimes referred to as a lysosomal storage disorder or a GM2-gangliosidosis."
487,What is (are) caudal regression syndrome ?,"Caudal regression syndrome is a disorder that impairs the development of the lower (caudal) half of the body. Affected areas can include the lower back and limbs, the genitourinary tract, and the gastrointestinal tract.  In this disorder, the bones of the lower spine (vertebrae) are frequently misshapen or missing, and the corresponding sections of the spinal cord are also irregular or missing. Affected individuals may have incomplete closure of the vertebrae around the spinal cord, a fluid-filled sac on the back covered by skin that may or may not contain part of the spinal cord, or tufts of hair at the base of the spine. People with caudal regression syndrome can also have an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis). The spinal abnormalities may affect the size and shape of the chest, leading to breathing problems in some individuals.  Individuals with caudal regression syndrome may have small hip bones with a limited range of motion. The buttocks tend to be flat and dimpled. The bones of the legs are typically underdeveloped, most frequently the upper leg bones (femurs). In some individuals, the legs are bent with the knees pointing out to the side and the feet tucked underneath the hips (sometimes called a frog leg-like position). Affected individuals may be born with inward- and upward-turning feet (clubfeet), or the feet may be outward- and upward-turning (calcaneovalgus). Some people experience decreased sensation in their lower limbs.  Abnormalities in the genitourinary tract in caudal regression syndrome are extremely varied. Often the kidneys are malformed; defects include a missing kidney (unilateral renal agenesis), kidneys that are fused together (horseshoe kidney), or duplication of the tubes that carry urine from each kidney to the bladder (ureteral duplication). These kidney abnormalities can lead to frequent urinary tract infections and progressive kidney failure. Additionally, affected individuals may have protrusion of the bladder through an opening in the abdominal wall (bladder exstrophy). Damage to the nerves that control bladder function, a condition called neurogenic bladder, causes affected individuals to have progressive difficulty controlling the flow of urine. Genital abnormalities in males can include the urethra opening on the underside of the penis (hypospadia) or undescended testes (cryptorchidism). Females may have an abnormal connection between the rectum and vagina (rectovaginal fistula). In severe cases, both males and females have a lack of development of the genitalia (genital agenesis).  People with caudal regression syndrome may have abnormal twisting (malrotation) of the large intestine, an obstruction of the anal opening (imperforate anus), soft out-pouchings in the lower abdomen (inguinal hernias), or other malformations of the gastrointestinal tract. Affected individuals are often constipated and may experience loss of control of bladder and bowel function."
488,What are the symptoms of Tetra-amelia syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tetra-amelia syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tetra-amelia syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the outer ear 90% Amelia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia involving the nose 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 90% Hydrocephalus 90% Oral cleft 90% Polyhydramnios 90% Abnormal lung lobation 50% Abnormal vertebral ossification 50% Abnormality of the larynx 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Abnormality of the sense of smell 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the nipples 50% Cataract 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Iris coloboma 50% Microcornea 50% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 50% Narrow mouth 50% Optic atrophy 50% Septo-optic dysplasia 50% Tracheal stenosis 50% Urogenital fistula 50% Abnormality of the diaphragm - Absent external genitalia - Adrenal gland agenesis - Anal atresia - Asplenia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Choanal atresia - Cleft palate - Cleft upper lip - Gastroschisis - Heterogeneous - Hypoplasia of the fallopian tube - Hypoplastic pelvis - Low-set ears - Microphthalmia - Peripheral pulmonary vessel aplasia - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Renal agenesis - Single naris - Single umbilical artery - Tetraamelia - Urethral atresia - Vaginal atresia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
489,What is (are) Renal Cell Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - Renal cell cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in tubules of the kidney.    - Smoking and misuse of certain pain medicines can affect the risk of renal cell cancer.     - Signs of renal cell cancer include blood in the urine and a lump in the abdomen.    - Tests that examine the abdomen and kidneys are used to detect (find) and diagnose renal cell cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Renal cell cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in tubules of the kidney.
                    Renal cell cancer (also called kidney cancer or renal adenocarcinoma) is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells are found in the lining of tubules (very small tubes) in the kidney. There are 2 kidneys, one on each side of the backbone, above the waist. Tiny tubules in the kidneys filter and clean the blood. They take out waste products and make urine. The urine passes from each kidney through a long tube called a ureter into the bladder. The bladder holds the urine until it passes through the urethra and leaves the body.     Cancer that starts in the ureters or the renal pelvis (the part of the kidney that collects urine and drains it to the ureters) is different from renal cell cancer. (See the PDQ summary about Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter Treatment for more information)."
490,Is achondroplasia inherited ?,"Achondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. About 80 percent of people with achondroplasia have average-size parents; these cases result from new mutations in the FGFR3 gene. In the remaining cases, people with achondroplasia have inherited an altered FGFR3 gene from one or two affected parents. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene typically have a severe form of achondroplasia that causes extreme shortening of the bones and an underdeveloped rib cage. These individuals are usually stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure."
491,What are the genetic changes related to Marfan syndrome ?,"Mutations in the FBN1 gene cause Marfan syndrome. The FBN1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called fibrillin-1. Fibrillin-1 attaches (binds) to other fibrillin-1 proteins and other molecules to form threadlike filaments called microfibrils. Microfibrils become part of the fibers that provide strength and flexibility to connective tissue. Additionally, microfibrils store molecules called growth factors and release them at various times to control the growth and repair of tissues and organs throughout the body. A mutation in the FBN1 gene can reduce the amount of functional fibrillin-1 that is available to form microfibrils, which leads to decreased microfibril formation. As a result, excess growth factors are released and elasticity in many tissues is decreased, leading to overgrowth and instability of tissues."
492,What are the treatments for Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome ?,"How might nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome be treated? The features of nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS) should be evaluated and treated by specialists who are experienced with the condition (such as oral surgeons, dermatologists, plastic surgeons, and medical geneticists). If a medulloblastoma is detected early enough, it may be treated by surgery and chemotherapy. Jaw keratocysts usually need to be surgically removed. Early treatment of basal cell carcinomas is necessary to prevent long-term cosmetic problems, particularly on the face. Surgical removal is often supplemented by other treatments such as cryotherapy, laser treatment, and/or photodynamic therapy. Radiation therapy is not recommended because it can provoke the development of more tumors. Some people may need long term treatment with oral retinoids such as isotretinoin or acitretin. Cardiac fibromas may not cause symptoms, but they should be monitored by a cardiologist. If ovarian fibromas need surgical treatment, it is typically recommended that ovarian tissue is preserved even though it involves a risk of recurrence."
493,"What are the treatments for hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome ?","These resources address the diagnosis or management of HANAC syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: COL4A1-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Angiopathy, hereditary, with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
494,What are the symptoms of Wiedemann-Steiner syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Wiedemann-Steiner syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Wiedemann-Steiner syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Constipation 5% Delayed skeletal maturation 5% Long eyelashes 5% Muscular hypotonia 5% Sacral dimple 5% Seizures 5% Tapered finger 5% Aggressive behavior - Blepharophimosis - Broad-based gait - Clinodactyly of the 5th finger - Delayed speech and language development - Epicanthus - Failure to thrive - Flat face - High palate - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability - Long philtrum - Low-set ears - Short middle phalanx of finger - Short stature - Short toe - Strabismus - Synophrys - Thick eyebrow - Wide nose - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
495,What are the treatments for prothrombin thrombophilia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of prothrombin thrombophilia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Prothrombin-Related Thrombophilia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Thrombophilia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Deep venous thrombosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Pulmonary embolus   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
496,How to diagnose Medullary Sponge Kidney ?,"A health care provider diagnoses medullary sponge kidney based on
                
- a medical and family history  - a physical exam  - imaging studies
                
Medical and Family History
                
Taking a medical and family history can help diagnose medullary sponge kidney. A health care provider will suspect medullary sponge kidney when a person has repeated UTIs or kidney stones.
                
Physical Exam
                
No physical signs are usually present in a patient with medullary sponge kidney, except for blood in the urine. Health care providers usually confirm a diagnosis of medullary sponge kidney with imaging studies.
                
Imaging Studies
                
Imaging is the medical term for tests that use different methods to see bones, tissues, and organs inside the body. Health care providers commonly choose one or more of three imaging techniques to diagnose medullary sponge kidney:
                
- intravenous pyelogram  - computerized tomography (CT) scan  - ultrasound
                
A radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaginginterprets the images from these studies, and patients do not need anesthesia.
                
Intravenous Pyelogram
                
In an intravenous pyelogram, a health care provider injects a special dye, called contrast medium, into a vein in the patients arm. The contrast medium travels through the body to the kidneys. The kidneys excrete the contrast medium into urine, which makes the urine visible on an x-ray. An x-ray technician performs this procedure at a health care providers office, an outpatient center, or a hospital. An intravenous pyelogram can show any blockage in the urinary tract, and the cysts show up as clusters of light.
                
Computerized Tomography Scans
                
Computerized tomography scans use a combination of x-rays and computer technology to create images. For a CT scan, a health care provider may give the patient a solution to drink and an injection of contrast medium. CT scans require the patient to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x-rays are taken. An x-ray technician performs the procedure in an outpatient center or a hospital. CT scans can show expanded or stretched tubules.
                
Ultrasound
                
Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. A specially trained technician performs the procedure in a health care providers office, an outpatient center, or a hospital. Ultrasound can show kidney stones and calcium deposits within the kidney."
497,What are the symptoms of D-glycericacidemia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of D-glycericacidemia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for D-glycericacidemia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Sensorineural hearing impairment 5% Aminoaciduria - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral cortical atrophy - Delayed myelination - Encephalopathy - Failure to thrive - Growth delay - Hyperreflexia - Hypsarrhythmia - Intellectual disability - Metabolic acidosis - Microcephaly - Muscular hypotonia of the trunk - Myoclonus - Neonatal hypotonia - Nonketotic hyperglycinemia - Opisthotonus - Phenotypic variability - Seizures - Spastic tetraplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
498,How many people are affected by Brooke-Spiegler syndrome ?,Brooke-Spiegler syndrome is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.
499,What are the treatments for Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia ?,"How might Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia be treated? Treatment of Schimke immunoosseous dysplasia (SIOD) is based on addressing individual symptoms as they develop.  Renal transplantation can treat the renal disease, and bone marrow transplantation has been done to treat the immunodeficiency.  Blood thinning medications can transiently improve blood flow through the atherosclerotic arteries but do not provide enduring relief from cerebral ischemia.  Treatment with acyclovir and some antibacterial agents has been beneficial for preventing of reducing the frequency of opportunistic infections.  More detailed information about treatment for SIOD can be found on the GeneReview's Web site. Click on the GeneReview link to read more."
500,What are the symptoms of Bronchitis ?,"Acute Bronchitis
                
Acute bronchitis caused by an infection usually develops after you already have a cold or the flu. Symptoms of a cold or the flu include sore throat, fatigue (tiredness), fever, body aches, stuffy or runny nose, vomiting, and diarrhea.
                
The main symptom of acute bronchitis is a persistent cough, which may last 10 to 20 days. The cough may produce clear mucus (a slimy substance). If the mucus is yellow or green, you may have a bacterial infection as well. Even after the infection clears up, you may still have a dry cough for days or weeks.
                
Other symptoms of acute bronchitis include wheezing (a whistling or squeaky sound when you breathe), low fever, and chest tightness or pain.
                
If your acute bronchitis is severe, you also may have shortness of breath, especially with physical activity.
                
Chronic Bronchitis
                
The signs and symptoms of chronic bronchitis include coughing, wheezing, and chest discomfort. The coughing may produce large amounts of mucus. This type of cough often is called a smoker's cough."
501,What are the treatments for Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis ?,"Currently, no specific therapies for NASH exist. The most important recommendations given to persons with this disease are to
                
- reduce their weight (if obese or overweight)  - follow a balanced and healthy diet  - increase physical activity  - avoid alcohol  - avoid unnecessary medications
                
These are standard recommendations, but they can make a difference. They are also helpful for other conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes, and high cholesterol.
                
A major attempt should be made to lower body weight into the healthy range. Weight loss can improve liver tests in patients with NASH and may reverse the disease to some extent. Research at present is focusing on how much weight loss improves the liver in patients with NASH and whether this improvement lasts over a period of time.
                
People with NASH often have other medical conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, or elevated cholesterol. These conditions should be treated with medication and adequately controlled; having NASH or elevated liver enzymes should not lead people to avoid treating these other conditions.
                
Experimental approaches under evaluation in patients with NASH include antioxidants, such as vitamin E, selenium, and betaine. These medications act by reducing the oxidative stress that appears to increase inside the liver in patients with NASH. Whether these substances actually help treat the disease is not known, but the results of clinical trials should become available in the next few years.
                
Another experimental approach to treating NASH is the use of newer antidiabetic medicationseven in persons without diabetes. Most patients with NASH have insulin resistance, meaning that the insulin normally present in the bloodstream is less effective for them in controlling blood glucose and fatty acids in the blood than it is for people who do not have NASH. The newer antidiabetic medications make the body more sensitive to insulin and may help reduce liver injury in patients with NASH. Studies of these medicationsincluding metformin, rosiglitazone, and pioglitazoneare being sponsored by the National Institutes of Health and should answer the question of whether these medications are beneficial in NASH."
502,What are the symptoms of Lujo Hemorrhagic Fever (LUHF) ?,"The symptoms of Lujo hemorrhagic fever, as described in the five patients in the original cluster outbreak, resemble those of severe Lassa Fever. After an incubation period of 7 to 13 days, the clinical course started by a non-specific febrile illness accompanied by headache and muscle pain. 
                
The disease increases in severity, with: 
 
 - a morbilliform rash of the face and trunk 
 - face and neck swelling 
 - pharyngitis (sore throat) 
 - diarrhea 
 
                
Bleeding was not a prominent feature during the illness. 
                
In the fatal cases (4/5 patients), a transient improvement was followed by: 
 
 - rapid deterioration with respiratory distress 
 - neurological signs and circulatory collapse 
 
                
Death occurred 10 to 13 days after onset. 
                
Low blood platelets, low white blood cell count (at the onset, rising later on) and elevated liver function values were present in all patients. 
                
Since Arenaviruses may enter the fetus through infection of the mother, and anectodal evidence suggests that infected pregnant women may suffer miscarriages, it is reasonable to assume that both infection of the fetus and miscarriage may be associated with Lujo infection in the mother."
503,What is (are) Ewing sarcoma ?,"Ewing sarcoma is a cancerous tumor that occurs in bones or soft tissues, such as cartilage or nerves. There are several types of Ewing sarcoma, including Ewing sarcoma of bone, extraosseous Ewing sarcoma, peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumor (pPNET), and Askin tumor. These tumors are considered to be related because they have similar genetic causes. These types of Ewing sarcoma can be distinguished from one another by the tissue in which the tumor develops. Approximately 87 percent of Ewing sarcomas are Ewing sarcoma of bone, which is a bone tumor that usually occurs in the thigh bones (femurs), pelvis, ribs, or shoulder blades. Extraosseous (or extraskeletal) Ewing sarcoma describes tumors in the soft tissues around bones, such as cartilage. pPNETs occur in nerve tissue and can be found in many parts of the body. A type of pPNET found in the chest is called Askin tumor.  Ewing sarcomas most often occur in children and young adults. Affected individuals usually feel stiffness, pain, swelling, or tenderness of the bone or surrounding tissue. Sometimes, there is a lump near the surface of the skin that feels warm and soft to the touch. Often, children have a fever that does not go away. Ewing sarcoma of bone can cause weakening of the involved bone, and affected individuals may have a broken bone with no obvious cause.  It is common for Ewing sarcoma to spread to other parts of the body (metastasize), usually to the lungs, to other bones, or to the bone marrow."
504,What are the treatments for metatropic dysplasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of metatropic dysplasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: TRPV4-Associated Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Metatrophic dysplasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
505,What are the treatments for desmosterolosis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of desmosterolosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Desmosterolosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
506,Is Medullary cystic kidney disease inherited ?,How is medullary cystic kidney disease inherited? The 2 types of MCKD are both inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that any individual with the condition has a 50% chance of passing on the disease causing mutation to any of their children.
507,Do you have information about Carbohydrates,"Summary : Carbohydrates are one of the main types of nutrients. They are the most important source of energy for your body. Your digestive system changes carbohydrates into glucose (blood sugar). Your body uses this sugar for energy for your cells, tissues and organs. It stores any extra sugar in your liver and muscles for when it is needed.    Carbohydrates are called simple or complex, depending on their chemical structure. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found naturally in foods such as fruits, vegetables, milk, and milk products. They also include sugars added during food processing and refining. Complex carbohydrates include whole grain breads and cereals, starchy vegetables and legumes. Many of the complex carbohydrates are good sources of fiber.    For a healthy diet, limit the amount of added sugar that you eat and choose whole grains over refined grains."
508,What is (are) Diffuse gastric cancer ?,"Diffuse gastric cancer or signet ring cell cancer is a type of cancer found most often in the glandular cells lining the stomach, but can also develop in the bowel, breast, pancreas, bladder, prostate or lung. The 2010 WHO (World Health Organization) classification recognizes four major histologic patterns of gastric cancers: tubular, papillary, mucinous and poorly cohesive (including signet ring cell carcinoma), plus uncommon histologic variants. The term ""signet ring cell"" is often used because the cells look like signet rings when viewed under a microscope. The signet cells are a type of epithelial cell. Epithelial tissue is skin tissue, covering and lining the body both inside and out. When diffuse gastric cancer is inherited it is called ""hereditary diffuse gastric cancer."" Treatment depends on the stage at which the cancer is found and may include chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or operations to remove the stomach (gastrectomy)."
509,What is (are) Localized scleroderma ?,"Localized scleroderma is characterized by thickening of the skin from excessive collagen deposits. Collagen is a protein normally present in our skin that provides structural support. However, when too much collagen is made, the skin becomes stiff and hard. Localized types of scleroderma are those limited to the skin and related tissues and, in some cases, the muscle below. Internal organs are not affected by localized scleroderma, and localized scleroderma can never progress to the systemic form of the disease. Often, localized conditions improve or go away on their own over time, but the skin changes and damage that occur when the disease is active can be permanent. For some people, localized scleroderma is serious and disabling. There are two generally recognized types of localized scleroderma: morphea and linear."
510,What are the symptoms of Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 4 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Epistaxis 90% Telangiectasia of the skin 90% Cavernous hemangioma 50% Microcytic anemia 50% Migraine 50% Portal hypertension 50% Spontaneous hematomas 50% Visceral angiomatosis 50% Abnormality of coagulation 7.5% Abnormality of the retinal vasculature 7.5% Biliary tract abnormality 7.5% Cerebral ischemia 7.5% Cirrhosis 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Conjunctival telangiectasia 7.5% Esophageal varix 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Hematuria 7.5% Hemoptysis 7.5% Hepatic failure 7.5% Intestinal polyposis 7.5% Nephrolithiasis 7.5% Peripheral arteriovenous fistula 7.5% Pulmonary embolism 7.5% Pulmonary hypertension 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Thrombophlebitis 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Arteriovenous fistulas of celiac and mesenteric vessels - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Celiac artery aneurysm - Cerebral arteriovenous malformation - Cerebral hemorrhage - Cyanosis - Dyspnea - High-output congestive heart failure - Ischemic stroke - Lip telangiectasia - Mesenteric artery aneurysm - Nasal mucosa telangiectasia - Palate telangiectasia - Pulmonary arteriovenous malformation - Right-to-left shunt - Spinal arteriovenous malformation - Spontaneous, recurrent epistaxis - Subarachnoid hemorrhage - Tongue telangiectasia - Transient ischemic attack - Venous varicosities of celiac and mesenteric vessels - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
511,What causes Varicose Veins ?,"Weak or damaged valves in the veins can cause varicose veins. After your arteries and capillaries deliver oxygen-rich blood to your body, your veins return the blood to your heart. The veins in your legs must work against gravity to do this.
                
One-way valves inside the veins open to let blood flow through, and then they shut to keep blood from flowing backward. If the valves are weak or damaged, blood can back up and pool in your veins. This causes the veins to swell.
                
Weak vein walls may cause weak valves. Normally, the walls of the veins are elastic (stretchy). If these walls become weak, they lose their normal elasticity. They become like an overstretched rubber band. This makes the walls of the veins longer and wider, and it causes the flaps of the valves to separate.
                
When the valve flaps separate, blood can flow backward through the valves. The backflow of blood fills the veins and stretches the walls even more. As a result, the veins get bigger, swell, and often twist as they try to squeeze into their normal space. These are varicose veins.
                
Normal Vein and Varicose Vein
                

                
Figure A shows a normal vein with a working valve and normal blood flow. Figure B shows a varicose vein with a deformed valve, abnormal blood flow, and thin, stretched walls. The middle image shows where varicose veins might appear in a leg.
                
Older age or a family history of varicose veins may raise your risk for weak vein walls. You also may be at higher risk if you have increased pressure in your veins due to overweight or obesity or pregnancy."
512,What causes Transposition of the great arteries ?,"What causes transposition of the great arteries (TGA)? The exact cause of TGA remains unknown. Some possible associated risk factors that have been proposed include gestational diabetes mellitus, maternal exposure to rodenticides and herbicides, and maternal use of anti-epileptic drugs. Changes (mutations) in specific genes including the GDF1, CFC1 and MED13L (also called THRAP2) genes have been implicated in only a small minority of TGA cases."
513,What are the treatments for sick sinus syndrome ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of sick sinus syndrome:  - Cleveland Clinic: Management of Arrhythmias  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sick sinus syndrome 1, autosomal recessive  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sick sinus syndrome 2, autosomal dominant  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sick sinus syndrome 3, susceptibility to  - National Heart Lung and Blood Institute: What Is a Pacemaker?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
514,What is (are) Sacrococcygeal Teratoma ?,"A sacrococcygeal teratoma is a tumor that grows at the base of the spine in a developing fetus.  It occurs in one in 40,000 newborns and girls are four times more likely to be affected than boys.  Though it is usually benign, there is a possibility that the teratoma could become malignant.  As such, the recommended treatment of a teratoma is complete removal of the tumor by surgery, performed soon after the birth.  If not all of the tumor is removed during the initial surgery, the teratoma may grow back (recur) and additional surgeries may be needed.  Studies have found that sacrococcygeal teratomas recur in up to 22% of cases."
515,How to prevent Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?,Researchers have not found a way to prevent childhood nephrotic syndrome when the cause is idiopathic or congenital.
516,What are the genetic changes related to ADCY5-related dyskinesia ?,"As its name suggests, ADCY5-related dyskinesia is caused by mutations in the ADCY5 gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called adenylate cyclase 5. This enzyme helps convert a molecule called adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to another molecule called cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). ATP is a molecule that supplies energy for cells' activities, including muscle contraction, and cAMP is involved in signaling for many cellular functions. Some ADCY5 gene mutations that cause ADCY5-related dyskinesia are thought to increase adenylate cyclase 5 enzyme activity and the level of cAMP within cells. Others prevent production of adenylate cyclase 5. It is unclear how either type of mutation leads to the abnormal movements that occur in this disorder."
517,What are the symptoms of Catamenial pneumothorax ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Catamenial pneumothorax? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Catamenial pneumothorax. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased fertility - Dysmenorrhea - Endometriosis - Multifactorial inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
518,How to diagnose Broken Heart Syndrome ?,"Because the symptoms are similar, at first your doctor may not be able to tell whether you are experiencing broken heart syndrome or having a heart attack. Therefore, the doctors immediate goals will be:
                
To determine whats causing your symptoms
                
To determine whether youre having or about to have a heart attack
                
Your doctor will diagnose broken heart syndrome based on your signs and symptoms, your medical and family histories, and the results from tests and procedures.
                
Specialists Involved
                
Your doctor may refer you to a cardiologist. A cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart diseases and conditions.
                
Physical Exam and Medical History
                
Your doctor will do a physical exam and ask you to describe your symptoms. He or she may ask questions such as when your symptoms began, where you are feeling pain or discomfort and what it feels like, and whether the pain is constant or varies.
                
To learn about your medical history, your doctor may ask about your overall health, risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD) and other heart disease, and family history. Your doctor will ask whether you've recently experienced any major stresses.
                
Diagnostic Tests and Procedures
                
No single test can diagnose broken heart syndrome. The tests and procedures for broken heart syndrome are similar to those used to diagnose CHD or heart attack. The diagnosis is made based on the results of the following standards tests to rule out heart attack and imaging studies to help establish broken heart syndrome.
                
Standard Tests and Procedures
                

                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                

                
AnEKGis a simple, painless test that detects and records the hearts electrical activity. The test shows how fast your heart is beating and whether its rhythm is steady or irregular. An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through each part of the heart.
                
The EKG may show abnormalities in your heartbeat, a sign of broken heart syndrome as well as heart damage due to CHD.
                

                
Blood Tests
                
Blood tests check the levels of certain substances in your blood, such as fats, cholesterol, sugar, and proteins. Blood tests help greatly in diagnosing broken heart syndrome, because certain enzymes (proteins in the blood) may be present in the blood to indicate the condition.
                
Imaging Procedures
                

                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography(echo) uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your heart. The test provides information about the size and shape of your heart and how well your heart chambers and valves are working. Echo also can show areas of heart muscle that aren't contracting well because of poor blood flow or previous injury.
                
The echo may show slowed blood flow in the left chamber of the heart.
                

                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x rayis a painless test that creates pictures of the structures in your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. Your doctor will need a chest x ray to analyze whether your heart has the enlarged shape that is a sign of broken heart syndrome.
                
A chest x ray can reveal signs of heart failure, as well as lung disorders and other causes of symptoms not related to broken heart syndrome.
                

                
Cardiac MRI
                
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a common test that uses radio waves, magnets, and a computer to make both still and moving pictures of your heart and major blood vessels. Doctors use cardiac MRI to get pictures of the beating heart and to look at its structure and function. These pictures can help them decide the best way to treat people who have heart problems.
                

                
Coronary Angiography and Cardiac Catheterization
                
Your doctor may recommend coronary angiography (an-jee-OG-rah-fee) if other tests or factors suggest you have CHD. This test uses dye and special x rays to look inside your coronary arteries.
                
To get the dye into your coronary arteries, your doctor will use a procedure called cardiac catheterization (KATH-eh-ter-ih-ZA-shun). A thin, flexible tube called a catheter is put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck. The tube is threaded into your coronary arteries, and the dye is released into your bloodstream.
                
Special x rays are taken while the dye is flowing through your coronary arteries. The dye lets your doctor study the flow of blood through your heart and blood vessels.
                

                
Ventriculogram
                
Ventriculogram is another test that can be done during a cardiac catheterization that examines the left ventricle, which is the hearts main pumping chamber. During this test, a dye is injected into the inside of the heart and x ray pictures are taken. The test can show the ventricles size and how well it pumps blood. It also shows how well the blood flows through the aortic and mitral values."
519,What are the treatments for chronic granulomatous disease ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of chronic granulomatous disease:  - American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Chronic Granulomatous Disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, X-linked  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal recessive cytochrome b-positive, type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal recessive cytochrome b-positive, type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chronic granulomatous disease, autosomal recessive cytochrome b-positive, type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Granulomatous disease, chronic, autosomal recessive, cytochrome b-negative  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Chronic Granulomatous Disease  - Primary Immune Deficiency Treatment Consortium   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
520,What are the treatments for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Scoliosis, idiopathic 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Scoliosis, idiopathic 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Scoliosis, idiopathic 3  - National Scoliosis Foundation: FAQs  - Scoliosis Research Society: Find A Specialist  - Scoliosis Research Society: For Adolescents   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
521,What are the symptoms of Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the basal ganglia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Coma - Confusion - Craniofacial dystonia - Dysarthria - Dysphagia - Encephalopathy - External ophthalmoplegia - Fever - Gait ataxia - Inability to walk - Irritability - Juvenile onset - Morphological abnormality of the pyramidal tract - Muscular hypotonia of the trunk - Mutism - Nystagmus - Paraparesis - Ptosis - Rigidity - Seizures - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
522,What is (are) Diabetes and Pregnancy ?,"Diabetes is a disease in which your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are too high. When you are pregnant, high blood sugar levels are not good for your baby.    About seven out of every 100 pregnant women in the United States get gestational diabetes. Gestational diabetes is diabetes that happens for the first time when a woman is pregnant. Most of the time, it goes away after you have your baby. But it does increase your risk for developing type 2 diabetes later on. Your child is also at risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes.    Most women get a test to check for diabetes during their second trimester of pregnancy. Women at higher risk may get a test earlier.    If you already have diabetes, the best time to control your blood sugar is before you get pregnant. High blood sugar levels can be harmful to your baby during the first weeks of pregnancy - even before you know you are pregnant. To keep you and your baby healthy, it is important to keep your blood sugar as close to normal as possible before and during pregnancy.    Either type of diabetes during pregnancy increases the chances of problems for you and your baby. To help lower the chances talk to your health care team about       - A meal plan for your pregnancy    - A safe exercise plan    - How often to test your blood sugar    - Taking your medicine as prescribed. Your medicine plan may need to change during pregnancy.       NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
523,Do you have information about Nutrition for Seniors,"Summary : Food provides the energy and nutrients you need to be healthy. Nutrients include proteins, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins, minerals and water.     Studies show that a good diet in your later years reduces your risk of osteoporosis, high blood pressure, heart diseases and certain cancers. As you age, you might need less energy. But you still need just as many of the nutrients in food. To get them       -  Choose a variety of healthy foods    -  Avoid empty calories, which are foods with lots of calories but few nutrients, such as chips, cookies, soda and alcohol    -  Pick foods that are low in cholesterol and fat, especially saturated and trans fats        Saturated fats are usually fats that come from animals. Look for trans fat on the labels of processed foods, margarines and shortenings.    NIH: National Institute on Aging"
524,What is (are) short QT syndrome ?,"Short QT syndrome is a condition that can cause a disruption of the heart's normal rhythm (arrhythmia). In people with this condition, the heart (cardiac) muscle takes less time than usual to recharge between beats. The term ""short QT"" refers to a specific pattern of heart activity that is detected with an electrocardiogram (EKG), which is a test used to measure the electrical activity of the heart. In people with this condition, the part of the heartbeat known as the QT interval is abnormally short.  If untreated, the arrhythmia associated with short QT syndrome can lead to a variety of signs and symptoms, from dizziness and fainting (syncope) to cardiac arrest and sudden death. These signs and symptoms can occur any time from early infancy to old age. This condition may explain some cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), which is a major cause of unexplained death in babies younger than 1 year. However, some people with short QT syndrome never experience any health problems associated with the condition."
525,What is (are) Hallermann-Streiff syndrome ?,"Hallermann-Streiff syndrome is a rare, congenital condition characterized mainly by abnormalities of the skull and facial bones; characteristic facial features; sparse hair; eye abnormalities; dental defects; degenerative skin changes; and proportionate short stature. Intellectual disability is present in some individuals. Almost all reported cases of the condition appear to have occurred randomly for unknown reasons (sporadically) and are thought to have resulted from a new mutation in the affected individual. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive."
526,What are the treatments for Opitz G/BBB syndrome ?,"How might Opitz G/BBB syndrome be treated? Because of the wide range of signs and symptoms that may be present in affected individuals, management of Opitz G/BBB syndrome typically incorporates a multidisciplinary team consisting of various specialists. Treatment for the condition may include surgery for significant abnormalities involving the larynx, trachea and/or esophagus; surgical intervention as needed for hypospadias, cleft lip and/or cleft palate, and imperforate anus; therapy for speech problems; surgical repair as needed for heart defects; neuropsychological support; and special education services."
527,What is (are) Fecal Incontinence ?,"The GI tract is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus. The movement of muscles in the GI tract, along with the release of hormones and enzymes, allows for the digestion of food. Organs that make up the GI tract are the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestinewhich includes the appendix, cecum, colon, and rectumand anus. The intestines are sometimes called the bowel. The last part of the GI tractcalled the lower GI tractconsists of the large intestine and anus.
                
The large intestine absorbs water and any remaining nutrients from partially digested food passed from the small intestine. The large intestine then changes waste from liquid to stool. Stool passes from the colon to the rectum. The rectum is located between the last part of the coloncalled the sigmoid colonand the anus. The rectum stores stool prior to a bowel movement. During a bowel movement, stool moves from the rectum to the anus, the opening through which stool leaves the body."
528,What causes Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes ?,"The causes are probably different for different types of diabetic neuropathy. Researchers are studying how prolonged exposure to high blood glucose causes nerve damage. Nerve damage is likely due to a combination of factors:
                
- metabolic factors, such as high blood glucose, long duration of diabetes, abnormal blood fat levels, and possibly low levels of insulin  - neurovascular factors, leading to damage to the blood vessels that carry oxygen and nutrients to nerves  - autoimmune factors that cause inflammation in nerves  - mechanical injury to nerves, such as carpal tunnel syndrome  - inherited traits that increase susceptibility to nerve disease  - lifestyle factors, such as smoking or alcohol use"
529,Is MPV17-related hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
530,What are the treatments for Melkersson-Rosenthal Syndrome ?,"Treatment is symptomatic and may include medication therapies with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and corticosteroids to reduce swelling, as well as antibiotics and immunosuppressants. Surgery may be recommended to relieve pressure on the facial nerves and to reduce swollen tissue, but its effectiveness has not been established. Massage and electrical stimulation may also be prescribed."
531,What are the symptoms of Multifocal motor neuropathy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of multifocal motor neuropathy? Signs and symptoms of multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) may include weakness; cramping; involuntary contractions or twitching; and wasting (atrophy) of affected muscles. Atrophy occurs late in the course of the condition. Muscles of the hands and lower arms are most commonly affected, but muscles of the lower limbs may also be involved. The symptoms are often asymmetrical, meaning that they differ on the right and left side of the body."
532,What is (are) Solitary Kidney ?,"When a person has only one kidney or one working kidney, this kidney is called a solitary kidney. The three main causes of a solitary kidney are
                
- birth defects. People with kidney agenesis are born with only one kidney. People born with kidney dysplasia have both kidneys; however, one kidney does not function. Many people with kidney agenesis or kidney dysplasia do not discover that they have a solitary kidney until they have an x ray, an ultrasound, or surgery for an unrelated condition.  - surgical removal of a kidney. Some people must have a kidney removed to treat cancer or another disease or injury. When a kidney is removed surgically due to disease or for donation, both the kidney and ureter are removed.  - kidney donation. A growing number of people are donating a kidney to be transplanted into a family member or friend whose kidneys have failed.
                
In general, people with a solitary kidney lead full, healthy lives. However, some people are more likely to develop kidney disease."
533,What are the genetic changes related to Frasier syndrome ?,"Mutations in the WT1 gene cause Frasier syndrome. The WT1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that regulates the activity of other genes by attaching (binding) to specific regions of DNA. On the basis of this action, the WT1 protein is called a transcription factor. The WT1 protein plays a role in the development of the kidneys and gonads (ovaries in females and testes in males) before birth.  The WT1 gene mutations that cause Frasier syndrome lead to the production of a protein with an impaired ability to control gene activity and regulate the development of the kidneys and reproductive organs, resulting in the signs and symptoms of Frasier syndrome.  Frasier syndrome has features similar to another condition called Denys-Drash syndrome, which is also caused by mutations in the WT1 gene. Because these two conditions share a genetic cause and have overlapping features, some researchers have suggested that they are part of a spectrum and not two distinct conditions."
534,Do you have information about Food Safety,"Summary : Safe steps in food handling, cooking, and storage can prevent foodborne illness. There are four basic steps to food safety at home:       - Clean - always wash your fruits and vegetables, hands, counters, and cooking utensils.    - Separate - keep raw foods to themselves. Germs can spread from one food to another.    - Cook - foods need to get hot and stay hot. Heat kills germs.    - Chill - put fresh food in the refrigerator right away.       In the grocery store, avoid cans that are bulging or jars that have cracks or loose lids. Check packages to be sure food hasn't reached its expiration date.    United States Department of Agriculture"
535,What is (are) infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy ?,"Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy is a disorder that primarily affects the nervous system. Individuals with infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy typically do not have any symptoms at birth, but between the ages of about 6 and 18 months they begin to experience delays in acquiring new motor and intellectual skills, such as crawling or beginning to speak. Eventually they lose previously acquired skills (developmental regression). In some cases, signs and symptoms of infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy first appear later in childhood or during the teenage years and progress more slowly.  Children with infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy experience progressive difficulties with movement. They generally have muscles that are at first weak and ""floppy"" (hypotonic), and then gradually become very stiff (spastic). Eventually, affected children lose the ability to move independently. Lack of muscle strength causes difficulty with feeding. Muscle weakness can also result in breathing problems that can lead to frequent infections, such as pneumonia. Seizures occur in some affected children.  Rapid, involuntary eye movements (nystagmus), eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus), and vision loss due to deterioration (atrophy) of the nerve that carries information from the eye to the brain (the optic nerve) often occur in infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. Hearing loss may also develop. Children with this disorder experience progressive deterioration of cognitive functions (dementia), and they eventually lose awareness of their surroundings.  Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy is characterized by the development of swellings called spheroid bodies in the axons, the fibers that extend from nerve cells (neurons) and transmit impulses to muscles and other neurons. In some individuals with infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy, abnormal amounts of iron accumulate in a specific region of the brain called the basal ganglia. The relationship of these features to the symptoms of infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy is unknown."
536,Is myosin storage myopathy inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
537,What are the treatments for Hypothyroidism ?,"Health care providers treat hypothyroidism with synthetic thyroxine, a medication that is identical to the hormone T4. The exact dose will depend on the patients age and weight, the severity of the hypothyroidism, the presence of other health problems, and whether the person is taking other drugs that might interfere with how well the body uses thyroid hormone.
                
Health care providers test TSH levels about 6 to 8 weeks after a patient begins taking thyroid hormone and make any necessary adjustments to the dose. Each time the dose is adjusted, the blood is tested again. Once a stable dose is reached, blood tests are normally repeated in 6 months and then once a year.
                
Hypothyroidism can almost always be completely controlled with synthetic thyroxine, as long as the recommended dose is taken every day as instructed."
538,How to prevent Parasites - Toxoplasmosis (Toxoplasma infection) ?,"People who are healthy should follow the guidelines below to reduce risk of toxoplasmosis. If you have a weakened immune system, please see guidelines for Immunocompromised Persons.
   Reduce Risk from Food
   
To prevent risk of toxoplasmosis and other infections from food:
   
    - Freeze meat for several days at sub-zero (0° F) temperatures before cooking to greatly reduce chance of infection.
    - Peel or wash fruits and vegetables thoroughly before eating. 
     
      
     
    - Wash cutting boards, dishes, counters, utensils, and hands with hot soapy water after contact with raw meat, poultry, seafood, or unwashed fruits or vegetables.
   
   
More on: Handwashing
   
The U.S. Government and the meat industry continue their efforts to reduce T. gondii in meat.
   Reduce Risk from the Environment
   
To prevent risk of toxoplasmosis from the environment:
   
    - Avoid drinking untreated drinking water.
    - Wear gloves when gardening and during any contact with soil or sand because it might be contaminated with cat feces that contain Toxoplasma. Wash hands with soap and warm water after gardening or contact with soil or sand.
    - Teach children the importance of washing hands to prevent infection.
    - Keep outdoor sandboxes covered. 
     
      
     
    - Feed cats only canned or dried commercial food or well-cooked table food, not raw or undercooked meats.
    - Change the litter box daily if you own a cat. The Toxoplasma parasite does not become infectious until 1 to 5 days after it is shed in a cat's feces. If you are pregnant or immunocompromised: 
     
      - Avoid changing cat litter if possible. If no one else can perform the task, wear disposable gloves and wash your hands with soap and warm water afterwards.
      - Keep cats indoors.
      - Do not adopt or handle stray cats, especially kittens. Do not get a new cat while you are pregnant."
539,What is (are) glycogen storage disease type VII ?,"Glycogen storage disease type VII (GSDVII) is an inherited disorder caused by an inability to break down a complex sugar called glycogen in muscle cells. A lack of glycogen breakdown interferes with the function of muscle cells.  There are four types of GSDVII. They are differentiated by their signs and symptoms and the age at which symptoms first appear.  The classical form of GSDVII is the most common form. Its features usually appear in childhood. This form is characterized by muscle pain and cramps, often following moderate exercise; strenuous exercise can lead to nausea and vomiting. During exercise, muscle tissue can be abnormally broken down, releasing a protein called myoglobin. This protein is processed by the kidneys and released in the urine (myoglobinuria). If untreated, myoglobinuria can damage the kidneys and lead to kidney failure. Some people with the classical form of GSDVII develop high levels of a waste product called uric acid in the blood (hyperuricemia) because the damaged kidneys are unable to remove uric acid effectively. Affected individuals may also have elevated levels of a molecule called bilirubin in the blood that can cause yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice). Individuals with classical GSDVII often have elevated levels of an enzyme called creatine kinase in their blood. This finding is a common indicator of muscle disease.  Infants with the severe infantile form of GSDVII have low muscle tone (hypotonia) at birth, which leads to muscle weakness (myopathy) that worsens over time. Affected infants have a weakened and enlarged heart (cardiomyopathy) and difficulty breathing normally. Individuals with this form of GSDVII usually do not survive past their first year of life.  In the late-onset form of GSDVII, myopathy is typically the only feature. The muscle weakness appears in adulthood, although some individuals have difficulty with sustained exercise starting in childhood. The weakness generally affects the muscles closest to the center of the body (proximal muscles).  The hemolytic form of GSDVII is characterized by hemolytic anemia, in which red blood cells are broken down (undergo hemolysis) prematurely, causing a shortage of red blood cells (anemia). People with the hemolytic form of GSDVII do not experience any signs or symptoms of muscle pain or weakness related to the disorder."
540,What is (are) Birth Control ?,"Birth control, also known as contraception, is designed to prevent pregnancy. Birth control methods may work in a number of different ways:       - Preventing sperm from getting to the eggs. Types include condoms, diaphragms, cervical caps, and contraceptive sponges.    - Keeping the woman's ovaries from releasing eggs that could be fertilized. Types include birth control pills, patches, shots, vaginal rings, and emergency contraceptive pills.    - IUDs, devices which are implanted into the uterus. They can be kept in place for several years.    - Sterilization, which permanently prevents a woman from getting pregnant or a man from being able to get a woman pregnant        Your choice of birth control should depend on several factors. These include your health, frequency of sexual activity, number of sexual partners and desire to have children in the future. Your health care provider can help you select the best form of birth control for you.    NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
541,What are the treatments for Herpes zoster oticus ?,"How might herpes zoster oticus be treated? Treatment for herpes zoster oticus typically includes anti-inflammatory drugs called steroids, which may reduce the inflammation of the nerves and help to ease the pain. Antiviral medications are usually prescribed, although whether antiviral medications are beneficial for treating this condition has not been confirmed. Strong pain medications may be prescribed if the pain continues. An eye patch may be recommended to prevent injury to the cornea (corneal abrasion) and damage to the eye if it does not close completely. Vertigo (feeling that the room is spinning) and dizziness may be treated with other medications."
542,What are the treatments for Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) ?,"There is no specific treatment for KFD, but early hospitalization and supportive therapy is important. Supportive therapy includes the maintenance of hydration and the usual precautions for patients with bleeding disorders."
543,What are the genetic changes related to severe congenital neutropenia ?,"Severe congenital neutropenia can result from mutations in at least five different genes. These genes play a role in the maturation and function of neutrophils, which are cells produced by the bone marrow. Neutrophils secrete immune molecules and ingest and break down foreign invaders.  Gene mutations that cause severe congenital neutropenia lead to the production of neutrophils that die off quickly or do not function properly. Some gene mutations result in unstable proteins that build up in neutrophils, leading to cell death. Other gene mutations result in proteins that impair the maturation or function of neutrophils, preventing these cells from responding appropriately to immune signals.  About half of all cases of severe congenital neutropenia are caused by mutations in the ELANE gene. Another 15 percent are caused by mutations in the HAX1 gene. The other genes each account for only a small percentage of all cases of this condition. In about one-third of people with severe congenital neutropenia, the cause of the disorder is unknown."
544,What are the symptoms of Chondrodysplasia acromesomelic with genital anomalies ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Chondrodysplasia acromesomelic with genital anomalies? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chondrodysplasia acromesomelic with genital anomalies. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia of the proximal phalanges of the hand - Aplasia/Hypoplasia involving the metacarpal bones - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad foot - Carpal synostosis - Disproportionate short-limb short stature - Fibular aplasia - Hypergonadotropic hypogonadism - Hypoplasia of the ulna - Hypoplasia of the uterus - Primary amenorrhea - Radial deviation of finger - Short femoral neck - Short finger - Short phalanx of finger - Short toe - Talipes equinovarus - Tarsal synostosis - Widened proximal tibial metaphyses - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
545,What causes Agenesis of the dorsal pancreas ?,"What causes agenesis of the dorsal pancreas? Partial or complete agenesis of the dorsal pancreas results from the failure of the dorsal pancreatic bud to form the body and tail of the pancreas in the developing fetus. It may occur from the absence, or regression of, the dorsal bud during fetal development. Heredity may play a role in the development of this condition, but further research is needed to clarify this. There have been reports in the literature of the condition being associated (rarely) with other congenital diseases, specifically a very rare disorder called polysplenia/heterotaxy syndrome. In this case, it may occur due to errors in development of the asymmetric organs and may be associated with benign to severe congenital cardiac (heart) malformations."
546,What are the genetic changes related to ankylosing spondylitis ?,"Ankylosing spondylitis is likely caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors, most of which have not been identified. However, researchers have found variations in several genes that influence the risk of developing this disorder.  The HLA-B gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays an important role in the immune system. The HLA-B gene is part of a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). The HLA-B gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. A variation of the HLA-B gene called HLA-B27 increases the risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis. Although many people with ankylosing spondylitis have the HLA-B27 variation, most people with this version of the HLA-B gene never develop the disorder. It is not known how HLA-B27 increases the risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis.  Variations in several additional genes, including ERAP1, IL1A, and IL23R, have also been associated with ankylosing spondylitis. Although these genes play critical roles in the immune system, it is unclear how variations in these genes affect a person's risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis. Changes in genes that have not yet been identified are also believed to affect the chances of developing ankylosing spondylitis and influence the progression of the disorder. Some of these genes likely play a role in the immune system, while others may have different functions. Researchers are working to identify these genes and clarify their role in ankylosing spondylitis."
547,How many people are affected by lattice corneal dystrophy type I ?,"Lattice corneal dystrophy type I is one of the most common disorders in a group of conditions that are characterized by protein deposits in the cornea (corneal dystrophies); however, it is still a rare condition. The prevalence of lattice corneal dystrophy type I is unknown."
548,What are the treatments for cystinuria ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of cystinuria:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cystinuria  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cystinuria  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cystinuria (image)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
549,What are the symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2O ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2O? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2O. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased motor nerve conduction velocity - Difficulty running - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Frequent falls - Hyporeflexia - Limb muscle weakness - Motor delay - Pes cavus - Phenotypic variability - Slow progression - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
550,What are the genetic changes related to hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload ?,"Mutations in the SLC11A2 gene cause hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload. The SLC11A2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1). The DMT1 protein is found in all tissues, where its primary role is to transport positively charged iron atoms (ions) within cells. In a section of the small intestine called the duodenum, the DMT1 protein is located within finger-like projections called microvilli. These projections absorb nutrients from food as it passes through the intestine and then release them into the bloodstream. In all other cells, including immature red blood cells called erythroblasts, DMT1 is located in the membrane of endosomes, which are specialized compartments that are formed at the cell surface to carry proteins and other molecules to their destinations within the cell. DMT1 transports iron from the endosomes to the cytoplasm so it can be used by the cell.  SLC11A2 gene mutations lead to reduced production of the DMT1 protein, decreased protein function, or impaired ability of the protein to get to the correct location in cells. In erythroblasts, a shortage of DMT1 protein diminishes the amount of iron transported within cells to attach to hemoglobin. As a result, the development of healthy red blood cells is impaired, leading to a shortage of these cells. In the duodenum, a shortage of DMT1 protein decreases iron absorption. To compensate, cells increase production of functional DMT1 protein, which increases iron absorption. Because the red blood cells cannot use the iron that is absorbed, it accumulates in the liver, eventually impairing liver function. The lack of involvement of other tissues in hypochromic microcytic anemia with iron overload is likely because these tissues have other ways to transport iron."
551,Is 2q37 deletion syndrome inherited ?,"Most cases of 2q37 deletion syndrome are not inherited. They result from a chromosomal deletion that occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.  Rarely, affected individuals inherit a copy of chromosome 2 with a deleted segment from an unaffected parent. In these cases, one of the parents carries a chromosomal rearrangement between chromosome 2 and another chromosome. This rearrangement is called a balanced translocation. No genetic material is gained or lost in a balanced translocation, so these chromosomal changes usually do not cause any health problems. However, translocations can become unbalanced as they are passed to the next generation. Children who inherit an unbalanced translocation can have a chromosomal rearrangement with extra or missing genetic material. Some individuals with 2q37 deletion syndrome inherit an unbalanced translocation that deletes genetic material near the end of the long arm of chromosome 2, which results in birth defects and other health problems characteristic of this disorder."
552,What are the treatments for Spinocerebellar ataxia 2 ?,"How might spinocerebellar ataxia 2 be treated? Treatment of spinocerebellar ataxia 2 (SCA2) is supportive and aims to help the affected person maintain their independence and avoid injury. It is recommended that people with SCA2 remain physically active, maintain a healthy weight, use adaptive equipment as needed, and avoid alcohol and medications that affect cerebellar function. Adaptive equipment may include canes or other devices to help with walking and mobility. People with SCA2 may develop difficulty speaking and may need to use computerized devices or writing pads to help with communication. Levodopa may be prescribed to help with some of the movement problems (e.g., rigidity and tremor), and magnesium may improve muscle cramping."
553,What is (are) Stroke ?,"One test that helps doctors judge the severity of a stroke is the standardized NIH Stroke Scale, developed by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke at the National Institutes of Health, or NIH. Health care professionals use the NIH Stroke Scale to measure a patient's neurological deficits by asking the patient to answer questions and to perform several physical and mental tests. Other scales include the Glasgow Coma Scale, the Hunt and Hess Scale, the Modified Rankin Scale, and the Barthel Index."
554,What are the treatments for Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis ?,"How might adolescent idiopathic scoliosis be treated? Treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis may involve observation, bracing and/or surgery. Treatment recommendations are generally dependent upon the risk of curve progression. Curves progress most during the rapid growth period of the patient (adolescent or pre-adolescent growth spurt). The potential for growth is evaluated by taking into consideration the patient's age, the status of whether females have had their first menstrual period, and radiographic parameters (x-ray studies). Detailed information about these treatment options can be accessed through the Scoliosis Research Society."
555,What is (are) Skin Cancer ?,"Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. The two most common types are basal cell cancer and squamous cell cancer. They usually form on the head, face, neck, hands, and arms. Another type of skin cancer, melanoma, is more dangerous but less common.     Anyone can get skin cancer, but it is more common in people who        -  Spend a lot of time in the sun or have been sunburned    -  Have light-colored skin, hair and eyes    -  Have a family member with skin cancer    -  Are over age 50       You should have your doctor check any suspicious skin markings and any changes in the way your skin looks. Treatment is more likely to work well when cancer is found early. If not treated, some types of skin cancer cells can spread to other tissues and organs. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, photodynamic therapy (PDT), and biologic therapy. PDT uses a drug and a type of laser light to kill cancer cells. Biologic therapy boosts your body's own ability to fight cancer.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
556,What is (are) Medicare and Continuing Care ?,"Original Medicare is managed by the Federal government and lets people with Medicare go to any doctor, hospital or other health care provider who accepts Medicare. It is a fee-for-service plan, meaning that the person with Medicare usually pays a fee for each service. Medicare pays its share of an approved amount up to certain limits, and the person with Medicare pays the rest. People in Original Medicare must choose and join a Medicare Prescription Drug Plan if they want to get Medicare prescription drug coverage. For more information about Original Medicare, visit http://www.medicare.gov for a free copy of ""Your Medicare Benefits."" (Under ""Search Tools,"" select ""Find a Medicare Publication."")"
557,What are the symptoms of High Blood Cholesterol ?,"High blood cholesterol usually has no signs or symptoms. Thus, many people don't know that their cholesterol levels are too high.
                
If you're 20 years old or older, have your cholesterol levels checked at least once every 5 years. Talk with your doctor about how often you should be tested."
558,What is (are) cyclic vomiting syndrome ?,"Cyclic vomiting syndrome is a disorder that causes recurrent episodes of nausea, vomiting, and tiredness (lethargy). This condition is diagnosed most often in young children, but it can affect people of any age.  The episodes of nausea, vomiting, and lethargy last anywhere from an hour to 10 days. An affected person may vomit several times per hour, potentially leading to a dangerous loss of fluids (dehydration). Additional symptoms can include unusually pale skin (pallor), abdominal pain, diarrhea, headache, fever, and an increased sensitivity to light (photophobia) or to sound (phonophobia). In most affected people, the signs and symptoms of each attack are quite similar. These attacks can be debilitating, making it difficult for an affected person to go to work or school.  Episodes of nausea, vomiting, and lethargy can occur regularly or apparently at random, or can be triggered by a variety of factors. The most common triggers are emotional excitement and infections. Other triggers can include periods without eating (fasting), temperature extremes, lack of sleep, overexertion, allergies, ingesting certain foods or alcohol, and menstruation.  If the condition is not treated, episodes usually occur four to 12 times per year. Between attacks, vomiting is absent, and nausea is either absent or much reduced. However, many affected people experience other symptoms during and between episodes, including pain, lethargy, digestive disorders such as gastroesophageal reflux and irritable bowel syndrome, and fainting spells (syncope). People with cyclic vomiting syndrome are also more likely than people without the disorder to experience depression, anxiety, and panic disorder. It is unclear whether these health conditions are directly related to nausea and vomiting.  Cyclic vomiting syndrome is often considered to be a variant of migraines, which are severe headaches often associated with pain, nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to light and sound. Cyclic vomiting syndrome is likely the same as or closely related to a condition called abdominal migraine, which is characterized by attacks of stomach pain and cramping. Attacks of nausea, vomiting, or abdominal pain in childhood may be replaced by migraine headaches as an affected person gets older. Many people with cyclic vomiting syndrome or abdominal migraine have a family history of migraines.  Most people with cyclic vomiting syndrome have normal intelligence, although some affected people have developmental delay or intellectual disability. Autism spectrum disorders, which affect communication and social interaction, have also been associated with cyclic vomiting syndrome. Additionally, muscle weakness (myopathy) and seizures are possible. People with any of these additional features are said to have cyclic vomiting syndrome plus."
559,What is (are) Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome ?,"Chromosome 8q24.3 deletion syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on chromosome 8 at a location designated q24.3. The signs and symptoms vary but may include slow growth, developmental delay, characteristic facial features, and skeletal abnormalities. Some affected people may also have coloboma, kidney abnormalities, and heart defects. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
560,What is (are) isolated Pierre Robin sequence ?,"Pierre Robin sequence is a set of abnormalities affecting the head and face, consisting of a small lower jaw (micrognathia), a tongue that is placed further back than normal (glossoptosis), and an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate). This condition is described as a ""sequence"" because one of its features, an underdeveloped lower jaw (mandible), sets off a sequence of events before birth that cause the other signs and symptoms. Specifically, having an abnormally small jaw affects placement of the tongue and formation of the palate, leading to glossoptosis and cleft palate.  The combination of features characteristic of Pierre Robin sequence can lead to difficulty breathing and problems eating early in life. As a result, some affected babies have an inability to grow and gain weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive). In some children with Pierre Robin sequence, growth of the mandible catches up, and these individuals have normal-sized chins.  Some people have Pierre Robin sequence as part of a syndrome that affects other organs and tissues in the body, such as campomelic dysplasia or Stickler syndrome. These instances are described as syndromic. When Pierre Robin sequence occurs by itself, it is described as nonsyndromic or isolated. Approximately 20 to 40 percent of cases of Pierre Robin sequence are isolated."
561,What is (are) Hashimoto's Disease ?,"The thyroid is a 2-inch-long, butterfly-shaped gland weighing less than 1 ounce. Located in the front of the neck below the larynx, or voice box, it has two lobes, one on either side of the windpipe.
                
The thyroid is one of the glands that make up the endocrine system. The glands of the endocrine system produce and store hormones and release them into the bloodstream. The hormones then travel through the body and direct the activity of the bodys cells.
                
The thyroid makes two thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). T3 is the active hormone and is made from T4. Thyroid hormones affect metabolism, brain development, breathing, heart and nervous system functions, body temperature, muscle strength, skin dryness, menstrual cycles, weight, and cholesterol levels.
                
Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), which is made by the pituitary gland in the brain, regulates thyroid hormone production. When thyroid hormone levels in the blood are low, the pituitary releases more TSH. When thyroid hormone levels are high, the pituitary decreases TSH production."
562,What is (are) familial dysautonomia ?,"Familial dysautonomia is a genetic disorder that affects the development and survival of certain nerve cells. The disorder disturbs cells in the autonomic nervous system, which controls involuntary actions such as digestion, breathing, production of tears, and the regulation of blood pressure and body temperature. It also affects the sensory nervous system, which controls activities related to the senses, such as taste and the perception of pain, heat, and cold. Familial dysautonomia is also called hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy, type III.  Problems related to this disorder first appear during infancy. Early signs and symptoms include poor muscle tone (hypotonia), feeding difficulties, poor growth, lack of tears, frequent lung infections, and difficulty maintaining body temperature. Older infants and young children with familial dysautonomia may hold their breath for prolonged periods of time, which may cause a bluish appearance of the skin or lips (cyanosis) or fainting. This breath-holding behavior usually stops by age 6. Developmental milestones, such as walking and speech, are usually delayed, although some affected individuals show no signs of developmental delay.  Additional signs and symptoms in school-age children include bed wetting, episodes of vomiting, reduced sensitivity to temperature changes and pain, poor balance, abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), poor bone quality and increased risk of bone fractures, and kidney and heart problems. Affected individuals also have poor regulation of blood pressure. They may experience a sharp drop in blood pressure upon standing (orthostatic hypotension), which can cause dizziness, blurred vision, or fainting. They can also have episodes of high blood pressure when nervous or excited, or during vomiting incidents. About one-third of children with familial dysautonomia have learning disabilities, such as a short attention span, that require special education classes. By adulthood, affected individuals often have increasing difficulties with balance and walking unaided. Other problems that may appear in adolescence or early adulthood include lung damage due to repeated infections, impaired kidney function, and worsening vision due to the shrinking size (atrophy) of optic nerves, which carry information from the eyes to the brain."
563,What are the symptoms of Porphyria cutanea tarda ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Porphyria cutanea tarda? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Porphyria cutanea tarda. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal blistering of the skin 90% Cutaneous photosensitivity 90% Hemolytic anemia 90% Hypopigmented skin patches 90% Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Skin rash 90% Thin skin 90% Atypical scarring of skin 7.5% Cerebral palsy 7.5% Cirrhosis 7.5% Edema 7.5% Hepatic steatosis 7.5% Hypertrichosis 7.5% Neoplasm of the liver 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% Alopecia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Facial hypertrichosis - Fragile skin - Hepatocellular carcinoma - Hyperpigmentation in sun-exposed areas - Onycholysis - Scleroderma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
564,Who is at risk for Anxiety Disorders? ?,"Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) affects about 6.8 million American adults, including twice as many women as men. The disorder develops gradually and can begin at any point in the life cycle, although the years of highest risk are between childhood and middle age. The average age of onset is 31 years old. Social phobia affects about 15 million American adults. Women and men are equally likely to develop the disorder, which usually begins in childhood or early adolescence. There is some evidence that genetic factors are involved.  Panic disorder  affects about 6 million American adults and is twice as common in women as men. Panic attacks often begin in late adolescence or early adulthood, but not everyone who experiences panic attacks will develop panic disorder. Many people have just one attack and never have another. The tendency to develop panic attacks appears to be inherited."
565,Is Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia inherited ?,"Is cryptogenic organizing pneumonia inherited? We are not aware of any familial cases of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP) in the medical literature, and to our knowledge, there is no evidence that some people may be genetically predisposed to developing COP."
566,"What is (are) Methylmalonic acidemia with homocystinuria, type cblC ?","Methylmalonic academia with homocystinuria (MMA+HCU) cblC is a genetic disorder that prevents the body from breaking down certain amino acids found in protein (i.e., isoleucine, valine, methionine, and threonine). As a result, homocystine, methylmalonic acid, and other harmful substances build-up in the body. Treatment should begin as soon as possible. In general, treatment may involve a low-protein diet, medical formula/drink, regular meals, careful monitoring, and vitamin B12 shots. Most US states now offer newborn screening for MMA+HCU, allowing for early detection and treatment. However even with early treatment, most children with MMA+HCU experience some symptoms affecting vision, growth, and learning. MMA+HCU cblC type is caused by changes in the MMACHC gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion."
567,What are the treatments for Klumpke paralysis ?,"How might Klumpke paralysis be treated? The  affected arm may be immobilized across the body for 7 to 10 days. For mild cases gentle massage of the arm and range-of-motion exercises may be recommended. For torn nerves (avulsion and rupture injuries), symptoms may improve with surgery.    Most infants recover from neuropraxia within 4 months. Parents or guardians of infants that show no evidence of spontaneous recovery at 4 months, may be counseled regarding additional treatment options. These treatment options may include: Surgery on the nerves (e.g., nerve grafts and neuroma excision) Tendon transfers to help the muscles that are affected by nerve damage work better"
568,What is (are) Fabry disease ?,"Fabry disease is an inherited disorder that results from the buildup of a particular type of fat, called globotriaosylceramide, in the body's cells. Beginning in childhood, this buildup causes signs and symptoms that affect many parts of the body. Characteristic features of Fabry disease include episodes of pain, particularly in the hands and feet (acroparesthesias); clusters of small, dark red spots on the skin called angiokeratomas; a decreased ability to sweat (hypohidrosis); cloudiness of the front part of the eye (corneal opacity); problems with the gastrointestinal system; ringing in the ears (tinnitus); and hearing loss. Fabry disease also involves potentially life-threatening complications such as progressive kidney damage, heart attack, and stroke. Some affected individuals have milder forms of the disorder that appear later in life and affect only the heart or kidneys."
569,What are the symptoms of PPM-X syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of PPM-X syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for PPM-X syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Behavioral abnormality 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Hypertonia 90% Macroorchidism 90% EEG abnormality 50% Gait disturbance 50% Macrotia 50% Seizures 50% Abnormality of the cardiovascular system 7.5% Developmental regression 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Abnormality of the teeth - Ataxia - Babinski sign - Bruxism - Choreoathetosis - Delayed speech and language development - Drooling - Excessive salivation - Facial hypotonia - High palate - Hyperreflexia - Intellectual disability, mild - Microcephaly - Parkinsonism - Pes cavus - Psychosis - Short neck - Shuffling gait - Slow progression - Spastic gait - Tremor - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
570,What are the symptoms of Galactosialidosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Galactosialidosis? The early infantile form of galactosialidosis is associated with hydrops fetalis, inguinal hernia, and hepatosplenomegaly. Additional features include abnormal bone development (dysostosis multiplex) and distinctive facial features that are often described as 'coarse.' Some infants have an enlarged heart; an eye abnormality called a cherry-red spot (identified through an eye examination); and kidney disease that can progress to kidney failure. Infants with this form are usually diagnosed between birth and 3 months of age. The late infantile form of galactosialidosis shares some features with the early infantile form, although the signs and symptoms are somewhat less severe and begin later in infancy. This form is characterized by short stature, dysostosis multiplex, heart valve problems, hepatosplenomegaly, and 'coarse' facial features. Other symptoms seen in some individuals with this type include intellectual disability, hearing loss, and a cherry-red spot. Children with this condition typically develop symptoms within the first year of life. The juvenile/adult form of galactosialidosis has signs and symptoms that are somewhat different than those of the other two types. This form is distinguished by difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), muscle twitches (myoclonus), seizures, and progressive intellectual disability. People with this form typically also have dark red spots on the skin (angiokeratomas), abnormalities in the bones of the spine, 'coarse' facial features, a cherry-red spot, vision loss, and hearing loss. The age at which symptoms begin to develop varies widely among affected individuals, but the average age is 16. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Galactosialidosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the macula 90% Coarse facial features 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Hearing impairment 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Seizures 90% Short stature 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Hepatosplenomegaly 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cherry red spot of the macula - Conjunctival telangiectasia - Decreased beta-galactosidase activity - Dysostosis multiplex - Hemangioma - Intellectual disability - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
571,What is (are) Hemochromatosis type 1 ?,"Hemochromatosis type 1 is a disease in which too much iron builds up in the body.  This extra iron is toxic to the body and can damage the organs. Hemochromatosis type 1 is the most common cause of hereditary hemochromatosis. Symptoms of this condition typically begin in adulthood. Early symptoms of hemochromatosis are nonspecific and may include fatigue, joint pain, abdominal pain, and loss of sex drive. Later signs and symptoms can include arthritis, liver disease, diabetes, heart abnormalities, and skin discoloration. Hemochromatosis type 1 is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the HFE gene. Hemochromatosis may be aquired or inherited. Hereditary hemochromatosis is classified by type depending on the age of onset and other factors such as genetic cause and mode of inheritance. To learn more about other types of hereditary hemochromatosis click on the disease names below: Hemochromatosis type 2 Hemochromatosis type 3 Hemochromatosis type 4 There is also a neonatal form of hemochromatosis: Neonatal hemochromatosis"
572,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Piriformis Syndrome ?,"Within the NINDS research programs, piriformis syndrome is addressed primarily through studies associated with pain research. NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for pain and nerve damage with the ultimate goal of reversing debilitating conditions such as piriformis syndrome."
573,What are the treatments for Gaucher Disease ?,"Enzyme replacement therapy is available for most people with types 1 and 3 Gaucher disease. Given intravenously every two weeks, this therapy decreases liver and spleen size, reduces skeletal abnormalities, and reverses other symptoms of the disorder. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved eligustat tartrate for Gaucher treatment, which works by administering small molecules that reduce the action of the enzyme that catalyzes glucose to ceramide. Surgery to remove the whole or part of the spleen may be required on rare occasions, and blood transfusions may benefit some anemic individuals. Other individuals may require joint replacement surgery to improve mobility and quality of life. There is no effective treatment for severe brain damage that may occur in persons with types 2 and 3 Gaucher disease."
574,How many people are affected by Frasier syndrome ?,Frasier syndrome is thought to be a rare condition; approximately 50 cases have been described in the scientific literature.
575,What is (are) hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ?,"Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is a disorder that results in the development of multiple abnormalities in the blood vessels.  In the circulatory system, blood carrying oxygen from the lungs is normally pumped by the heart into the arteries at high pressure. The pressure allows the blood to make its way through the arteries to the smaller vessels (arterioles and capillaries) that supply oxygen to the body's tissues. By the time blood reaches the capillaries, the pressure is much lower. The blood then proceeds from the capillaries into veins, through which it eventually returns to the heart.  In hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, some arterial vessels flow directly into veins rather than into the capillaries. These abnormalities are called arteriovenous malformations. When they occur in vessels near the surface of the skin, where they are visible as red markings, they are known as telangiectases (the singular is telangiectasia).  Without the normal buffer of the capillaries, the blood moves from the arteries at high pressure into the thinner walled, less elastic veins. The extra pressure tends to strain and enlarge these blood vessels, and may result in compression or irritation of adjacent tissues and frequent episodes of severe bleeding (hemorrhage). Nosebleeds are very common in people with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, and more serious problems may arise from hemorrhages in the brain, liver, lungs, or other organs.  Forms of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia include type 1, type 2, type 3, and juvenile polyposis/hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome. People with type 1 tend to develop symptoms earlier than those with type 2, and are more likely to have blood vessel malformations in the lungs and brain. Type 2 and type 3 may be associated with a higher risk of liver involvement. Women are more likely than men to develop blood vessel malformations in the lungs with type 1, and are also at higher risk of liver involvement with both type 1 and type 2. Individuals with any form of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, however, can have any of these problems.  Juvenile polyposis/hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome is a condition that involves both arteriovenous malformations and a tendency to develop growths (polyps) in the gastrointestinal tract. Types 1, 2 and 3 do not appear to increase the likelihood of such polyps."
576,What causes Short Bowel Syndrome ?,"The main cause of short bowel syndrome is surgery to remove a portion of the small intestine. This surgery can treat intestinal diseases, injuries, or birth defects.
                
Some children are born with an abnormally short small intestine or with part of their bowel missing, which can cause short bowel syndrome. In infants, short bowel syndrome most commonly occurs following surgery to treat necrotizing enterocolitis, a condition in which part of the tissue in the intestines is destroyed.1
                
Short bowel syndrome may also occur following surgery to treat conditions such as
                
- cancer and damage to the intestines caused by cancer treatment  - Crohn's disease, a disorder that causes inflammation, or swelling, and irritation of any part of the digestive tract  - gastroschisis, which occurs when the intestines stick out of the body through one side of the umbilical cord  - internal hernia, which occurs when the small intestine is displaced into pockets in the abdominal lining  - intestinal atresia, which occurs when a part of the intestines doesn't form completely  - intestinal injury from loss of blood flow due to a blocked blood vessel  - intestinal injury from trauma  - intussusception, in which one section of either the large or small intestine folds into itself, much like a collapsible telescope  - meconium ileus, which occurs when the meconium, a newborn's first stool, is thicker and stickier than normal and blocks the ileum  - midgut volvulus, which occurs when blood supply to the middle of the small intestine is completely cut off  - omphalocele, which occurs when the intestines, liver, or other organs stick out through the navel, or belly button
                
Even if a person does not have surgery, disease or injury can damage the small intestine."
577,What are the treatments for Dandy-Walker malformation ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Dandy-Walker malformation:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dandy-Walker syndrome  - National Hydrocephalus Foundation: Treatment of Hydrocephalus   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
578,What are the symptoms of Osteoporosis oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Osteoporosis oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteoporosis oculocutaneous hypopigmentation syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Generalized osteoporosis - Hypopigmentation of the skin - Ocular albinism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
579,What are the symptoms of Autosomal dominant neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4B ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Autosomal dominant neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4B? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Autosomal dominant neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis 4B. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Ataxia - Auditory hallucinations - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Curvilinear intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material - Dementia - Depression - Fingerprint intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material - Granular osmiophilic deposits (GROD) in cells - Increased neuronal autofluorescent lipopigment - Myoclonus - Parkinsonism - Rapidly progressive - Rectilinear intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material - Seizures - Visual hallucinations - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
580,What is (are) Heart Murmur ?,"A heart murmur is an extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat. Murmurs range from very faint to very loud. Sometimes they sound like a whooshing or swishing noise.
                
Normal heartbeats make a ""lub-DUPP"" or ""lub-DUB"" sound. This is the sound of the heart valves closing as blood moves through the heart. Doctors can hear these sounds and heart murmurs using a stethoscope.
                
Overview
                
The two types of heart murmurs are innocent (harmless) and abnormal.
                
Innocent heart murmurs aren't caused by heart problems. These murmurs are common in healthy children. Many children will have heart murmurs heard by their doctors at some point in their lives.
                
People who have abnormal heart murmurs may have signs or symptoms of heart problems. Most abnormal murmurs in children are caused by congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart defects. These defects are problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth.
                
In adults, abnormal heart murmurs most often are caused by acquired heart valve disease. This is heart valve disease that develops as the result of another condition. Infections, diseases, and aging can cause heart valve disease.
                
Outlook
                
A heart murmur isn't a disease, and most murmurs are harmless. Innocent murmurs don't cause symptoms. Having one doesn't require you to limit your physical activity or do anything else special. Although you may have an innocent murmur throughout your life, you won't need treatment for it.
                
The outlook and treatment for abnormal heart murmurs depend on the type and severity of the heart problem causing them."
581,What causes Congenital Heart Defects ?,"If your child has a congenital heart defect, you may think you did something wrong during your pregnancy to cause the problem. However, doctors often don't know why congenital heart defects occur.
                
Heredity may play a role in some heart defects. For example, a parent who has a congenital heart defect may be more likely than other people to have a child with the defect. Rarely, more than one child in a family is born with a heart defect.
                
Children who have genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, often have congenital heart defects. In fact, half of all babies who have Down syndrome have congenital heart defects.
                
Smoking during pregnancy also has been linked to several congenital heart defects, including septal defects.
                
Researchers continue to search for the causes of congenital heart defects."
582,What is (are) Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome ?,"Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) is a group of inherited disorders that weaken connective tissues. Connective tissues are proteins that support skin, bones, blood vessels, and other organs.     EDS usually affects your skin, joints and blood vessel walls. Symptoms include       -  Loose joints     -  Fragile, small blood vessels     -  Abnormal scar formation and wound healing     -  Soft, velvety, stretchy skin that bruises easily        There are several types of EDS. They can range from mild to life-threatening. About 1 in 5,000 people has EDS. There is no cure. Treatment involves managing symptoms, often with medicines and physical therapy. It also includes learning how to protect your joints and prevent injuries."
583,What causes Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia ?,"Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) develops as a result of an infant's lungs becoming irritated or inflamed.
                
The lungs of premature infants are fragile and often aren't fully developed. They can easily be irritated or injured within hours or days of birth. Many factors can damage premature infants' lungs.
                
Ventilation
                
Newborns who have breathing problems or can't breathe on their own may need ventilator support. Ventilators are machines that use pressure to blow air into the airways and lungs.
                
Although ventilator support can help premature infants survive, the machine's pressure might irritate and harm the babies' lungs. For this reason, doctors only recommend ventilator support when necessary.
                
High Levels of Oxygen
                
Newborns who have breathing problems might need oxygen therapy (oxygen given through nasal prongs, a mask, or a breathing tube). This treatment helps the infants' organs get enough oxygen to work well.
                
However, high levels of oxygen can inflame the lining of the lungs and injure the airways. Also, high levels of oxygen can slow lung development in premature infants.
                
Infections
                
Infections can inflame the lungs. As a result, the airways narrow, which makes it harder for premature infants to breathe. Lung infections also increase the babies' need for extra oxygen and breathing support.
                
Heredity
                
Studies show that heredity may play a role in causing BPD. More studies are needed to confirm this finding."
584,What are the genetic changes related to Blau syndrome ?,"Blau syndrome results from mutations in the NOD2 gene. The protein produced from this gene helps defend the body from foreign invaders, such as viruses and bacteria, by playing several essential roles in the immune response, including inflammatory reactions. An inflammatory reaction occurs when the immune system sends signaling molecules and white blood cells to a site of injury or disease to fight microbial invaders and facilitate tissue repair.  The NOD2 gene mutations that cause Blau syndrome result in a NOD2 protein that is overactive, which can trigger an abnormal inflammatory reaction. However, it is unclear how overactivation of the NOD2 protein causes the specific pattern of inflammation affecting the joints, eyes, and skin that is characteristic of Blau syndrome."
585,What are the genetic changes related to Leber hereditary optic neuropathy ?,"Mutations in the MT-ND1, MT-ND4, MT-ND4L, or MT-ND6 gene can cause LHON. These genes are found in the DNA of cellular structures called mitochondria, which convert the energy from food into a form that cells can use. Although most DNA is packaged in chromosomes within the nucleus, mitochondria also have a small amount of their own DNA, known as mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA.  The genes associated with LHON each provide instructions for making a protein involved in normal mitochondrial function. These proteins are part of a large enzyme complex in mitochondria that helps convert oxygen, fats, and simple sugars to energy. Mutations in any of the genes disrupt this process. It remains unclear how these genetic changes cause the death of cells in the optic nerve and lead to the specific features of LHON.  A significant percentage of people with a mutation that causes LHON do not develop any features of the disorder. Specifically, more than 50 percent of males with a mutation and more than 85 percent of females with a mutation never experience vision loss or related health problems. Additional factors may determine whether a person develops the signs and symptoms of this disorder. Environmental factors such as smoking and alcohol use may be involved, although studies have produced conflicting results. Researchers are also investigating whether changes in additional genes contribute to the development of signs and symptoms."
586,What are the symptoms of Thrombocythemia and Thrombocytosis ?,"People who have thrombocythemia or thrombocytosis may not have signs or symptoms. These conditions might be discovered only after routine blood tests.
                
However, people who have primary thrombocythemia are more likely than those who have secondary thrombocytosis to have serious signs and symptoms.
                
The signs and symptoms of a high platelet count are linked to blood clots and bleeding. They include weakness, bleeding, headache, dizziness, chest pain, and tingling in the hands and feet.
                
Blood Clots
                
In primary thrombocythemia, blood clots most often develop in the brain, hands, and feet. But they can develop anywhere in the body, including in the heart and intestines.
                
Blood clots in the brain may cause symptoms such as chronic (ongoing) headache and dizziness. In extreme cases, stroke may occur.
                
Blood clots in the tiny blood vessels of the hands and feet leave them numb and red. This may lead to an intense burning and throbbing pain felt mainly on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet.
                
Other signs and symptoms of blood clots may include:
                
Changes in speech or awareness, ranging from confusion to passing out
                
Seizures
                
Upper body discomfort in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw, or abdomen
                
Shortness of breath and nausea (feeling sick to your stomach)
                
In pregnant women, blood clots in the placenta can cause miscarriage or problems with fetal growth and development.
                
Women who have primary thrombocythemia or secondary thrombocytosis and take birth control pills are at increased risk for blood clots.
                
Blood clots are related to other conditions and factors as well. Older age, prior blood clots, diabetes, high blood pressure, and smoking also increase your risk for blood clots.
                
Bleeding
                
If bleeding occurs, it most often affects people who have platelet counts higher than 1million platelets per microliter of blood. Signs of bleeding include nosebleeds, bruising, bleeding from the mouth or gums, or blood in the stools.
                
Although bleeding usually is associated with a low platelet count, it also can occur in people who have high platelet counts. Blood clots that develop in thrombocythemia or thrombocytosis may use up your body's platelets. This means that not enough platelets are left in your bloodstream to seal off cuts or breaks on the blood vessel walls.
                
Another cause of bleeding in people who have very high platelets counts is a condition called von Willebrand Disease. This condition affects the blood clotting process.
                
In rare cases of primary thrombocythemia, the faulty bone marrow cells will cause a form of leukemia (lu-KE-me-ah). Leukemia is a cancer of the blood cells."
587,Do you have information about Vegetarian Diet,"Summary : A vegetarian diet focuses on plants for food. These include fruits, vegetables, dried beans and peas, grains, seeds and nuts. There is no single type of vegetarian diet. Instead, vegetarian eating patterns usually fall into the following groups:        -  The vegan diet, which excludes all meat and animal products    -  The lacto vegetarian diet, which includes plant foods plus dairy products    -  The lacto-ovo vegetarian diet, which includes both dairy products and eggs       People who follow vegetarian diets can get all the nutrients they need. However, they must be careful to eat a wide variety of foods to meet their nutritional needs. Nutrients vegetarians may need to focus on include protein, iron, calcium, zinc and vitamin B12.     United States Department of Agriculture"
588,What is (are) Disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis ?,"Disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP) is a skin condition that causes dry patches. It is characterized by a large number of small, brownish patches with a distinctive border, found most commonly on sun-exposed areas of the skin (particularly the arms and legs). DSAP usually starts during the third or fourth decade of life and rarely affects children. Lesions usually appear in summer and improve or disappear during winter. While it is usually benign (not cancerous), squamous cell carcinoma or Bowens disease may occasionally develop within patches. DSAP may be inherited in an autosomal dominant matter or may occur sporadically (in people with no family history of DSAP). Some cases are caused by a change (mutation) in the MVK or SART3 genes. Treatment is generally not effective long-term but may include sun protection, topical medications, cryotherapy, and/or photodynamic therapy."
589,What is (are) alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase deficiency ?,"Alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase (AMACR) deficiency is a disorder that causes a variety of neurological problems that begin in adulthood and slowly get worse. People with AMACR deficiency may have a gradual loss in intellectual functioning (cognitive decline), seizures, and migraines. They may also have acute episodes of brain dysfunction (encephalopathy) similar to stroke, involving altered consciousness and areas of damage (lesions) in the brain. Other features of AMACR deficiency may include weakness and loss of sensation in the limbs due to nerve damage (sensorimotor neuropathy), muscle stiffness (spasticity), and difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia). Vision problems caused by deterioration of the light-sensitive layer at the back of the eye (the retina) can also occur in this disorder."
590,What are the symptoms of Fetal akinesia syndrome X-linked ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Fetal akinesia syndrome X-linked? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Fetal akinesia syndrome X-linked. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Agenesis of corpus callosum - Arrhinencephaly - Blepharophimosis - Fetal akinesia sequence - Hypokinesia - Polyhydramnios - Stillbirth - Telecanthus - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
591,What is the outlook for Pompe Disease ?,"Without enzyme replacement therapy, the hearts of babies with infantile onset Pompe disease progressively thicken and enlarge. These babies die before the age of one year from either cardiorespiratory failure or respiratory infection. For individuals with late onset Pompe disease, the prognosis is dependent upon the age of onset. In general, the later the age of onset, the slower the progression of the disease. Ultimately, the prognosis is dependent upon the extent of respiratory muscle involvement."
592,What are the genetic changes related to spina bifida ?,"Spina bifida is a complex condition that is likely caused by the interaction of multiple genetic and environmental factors. Some of these factors have been identified, but many remain unknown.  Changes in dozens of genes in individuals with spina bifida and in their mothers may influence the risk of developing this type of neural tube defect. The best-studied of these genes is MTHFR, which provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in processing the vitamin folate (also called vitamin B9). A shortage (deficiency) of this vitamin is an established risk factor for neural tube defects. Changes in other genes related to folate processing and genes involved in the development of the neural tube have also been studied as potential risk factors for spina bifida. However, none of these genes appears to play a major role in causing the condition.  Researchers have also examined environmental factors that could contribute to the risk of spina bifida. As mentioned above, folate deficiency appears to play a significant role. Studies have shown that women who take supplements containing folic acid (the synthetic form of folate) before they get pregnant and very early in their pregnancy are significantly less likely to have a baby with spina bifida or a related neural tube defect. Other possible maternal risk factors for spina bifida include diabetes mellitus, obesity, exposure to high heat (such as a fever or use of a hot tub or sauna) in early pregnancy, and the use of certain anti-seizure medications during pregnancy. However, it is unclear how these factors may influence the risk of spina bifida."
593,What are the treatments for hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia type 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile polyposis/hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Osler hemorrhagic telangiectasia syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
594,What causes Heart Disease in Women ?,"Research suggests thatcoronary heart disease(CHD) begins with damage to the lining and inner layers of the coronary (heart) arteries. Several factors contribute to this damage. They include:
                
Smoking, including secondhand smoke
                
High amounts of certain fats andcholesterol in the blood
                
High blood pressure
                
High amounts of sugar in the blood due to insulin resistance or diabetes
                
Blood vessel inflammation
                
Plaque may begin to build up where the arteries are damaged. The buildup of plaque in the coronary arteries may start in childhood.
                
Over time, plaque can harden or rupture (break open). Hardened plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the heart. This can cause chest pain or discomfort calledangina.
                
If the plaque ruptures, blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) stick to the site of the injury. They may clump together to form blood clots.
                
Blood clots can further narrow the coronary arteries and worsenangina. If a clot becomes large enough, it can mostly or completely block a coronary artery and cause a heart attack.
                
In addition to the factors above, low estrogen levels before or after menopause may play a role in causingcoronary microvascular disease(MVD). Coronary MVD is heart disease that affects the heart's tiny arteries.
                
The cause of broken heart syndrome isn't yet known. However, a sudden release of stress hormones may play a role in causing the disorder. Most cases of broken heart syndrome occur in women who have gone through menopause."
595,What are the symptoms of Carnevale syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Carnevale syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Carnevale syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hearing impairment 5% Intellectual disability 5% Radioulnar synostosis 5% Abnormality of the vertebrae - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blepharophimosis - Broad forehead - Broad philtrum - Cleft palate - Cleft upper lip - Craniosynostosis - Cryptorchidism - Depressed nasal tip - Diastasis recti - Downturned corners of mouth - Epicanthus inversus - Highly arched eyebrow - Hip dislocation - Hypertelorism - Hypoplasia of the musculature - Joint hypermobility - Partial abdominal muscle agenesis - Postnatal growth retardation - Prominence of the premaxilla - Prominent nasal bridge - Ptosis - Strabismus - Torticollis - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
596,What are the treatments for Esthesioneuroblastoma ?,"How is esthesioneuroblastoma usually treated? Various treatment regimens for esthesioneuroblastoma have been used through the years. Early treatment included using either surgery or radiation therapy, but, for the most part, these regimens resulted in high rates of recurrence. Subsequently, multimodality therapy with surgery and radiation therapy has been more frequently administered, and some institutions recommend trimodality therapy, with the addition of chemotherapy to surgery and radiation therapy. Most patients are initially treated with surgical removal if possible. Radiation therapy is most commonly administered after surgical removal of the tumor. The role of chemotherapy for esthesioneuroblastoma remains poorly defined. Many institutions incorporate chemotherapy into the treatment regimen, especially for stage C disease, whereas others have not noted any substantial clinical response to chemotherapy."
597,What causes Hemochromatosis ?,"Primary Hemochromatosis
                
Inherited genetic defects cause primary hemochromatosis, and mutations in the HFE gene are associated with up to 90 percent of cases.1 The HFE gene helps regulate the amount of iron absorbed from food. The two known mutations of HFE are C282Y and H63D. C282Y defects are the most common cause of primary hemochromatosis.
                
People inherit two copies of the HFE geneone copy from each parent. Most people who inherit two copies of the HFE gene with the C282Y defect will have higher-than-average iron absorption. However, not all of these people will develop health problems associated with hemochromatosis. One recent study found that 31 percent of people with two copies of the C282Y defect developed health problems by their early fifties.2 Men who develop health problems from HFE defects typically develop them after age 40.1 Women who develop health problems from HFE defects typically develop them after menopause.1
                
People who inherit two H63D defects or one C282Y and one H63D defect may have higher-than-average iron absorption.3 However, they are unlikely to develop iron overload and organ damage.
                
Rare defects in other genes may also cause primary hemochromatosis. Mutations in the hemojuvelin or hepcidin genes cause juvenile hemochromatosis, a type of primary hemochromatosis. People with juvenile hemochromatosis typically develop severe iron overload and liver and heart damage between ages 15 and 30.
                
Secondary Hemochromatosis
                
Hemochromatosis that is not inherited is called secondary hemochromatosis. The most common cause of secondary hemochromatosis is frequent blood transfusions in people with severe anemia. Anemia is a condition in which red blood cells are fewer or smaller than normal, which means they carry less oxygen to the bodys cells. Types of anemia that may require frequent blood transfusions include
                
- congenital, or inherited, anemias such as sickle cell disease, thalassemia, and Fanconis syndrome  - severe acquired anemias, which are not inherited, such as aplastic anemia and autoimmune hemolytic anemia
                
Liver diseasessuch as alcoholic liver disease, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, and chronic hepatitis C infectionmay cause mild iron overload. However, this iron overload causes much less liver damage than the underlying liver disease causes.
                
Neonatal Hemochromatosis
                
Neonatal hemochromatosis is a rare disease characterized by liver failure and death in fetuses and newborns. Researchers are studying the causes of neonatal hemochromatosis and believe more than one factor may lead to the disease.
                
Experts previously considered neonatal hemochromatosis a type of primary hemochromatosis. However, recent studies suggest genetic defects that increase iron absorption do not cause this disease. Instead, the mothers immune system may produce antibodiesproteins made by the immune system to protect the body from foreign substances such as bacteria or virusesthat damage the liver of the fetus. Women who have had one child with neonatal hemochromatosis are at risk for having more children with the disease.4 Treating these women during pregnancy with intravenous (IV) immunoglobulina solution of antibodies from healthy peoplecan prevent fetal liver damage.4
                
Researchers supported by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) recently found that a combination of exchange transfusionremoving blood and replacing it with donor bloodand IV immunoglobulin is an effective treatment for babies born with neonatal hemochromatosis.5"
598,How many people are affected by X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 1 ?,The prevalence of X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 1 is unknown. Several dozen affected males have been reported in the scientific literature.
599,Who is at risk for Lung Cancer? ?,"Another substance that can contribute to lung cancer is asbestos. Asbestos is used in shipbuilding, asbestos mining and manufacturing, insulation work, and brake repair, but many products that contain asbestos have been phased out over the past several decades. If inhaled, asbestos particles can lodge in the lungs, damaging cells and increasing the risk for lung cancer."
600,What causes Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids ?,"What causes hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids (HDLS)? HDLS is caused by mutations in the CSF1R gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF-1 receptor), which is found in the outer membrane of certain types of cells. The CSF-1 receptor triggers signaling pathways that control many important cellular processes, such as cell growth and division (proliferation) and maturation of the cell to take on defined functions (differentiation). Mutations in the CSF1R gene lead to a altered CSF-1 receptor protein which is unable to stimulate cell signaling pathways. Exactly how these gene mutations cause the signs and symptoms of HDLS is unknown."
601,What are the symptoms of Larsen-like syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Larsen-like syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Larsen-like syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the ankles 90% Joint dislocation 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Short stature 90% Tracheal stenosis 90% Abnormality of the fibula 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 50% Cleft palate 50% Frontal bossing 50% Hypertelorism 50% Kyphosis 50% Malar flattening 50% Micromelia 50% Narrow chest 50% Narrow mouth 50% Postaxial hand polydactyly 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Spina bifida occulta 50% Tarsal synostosis 50% Thickened nuchal skin fold 50% Abnormal cartilage matrix - Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Laryngomalacia - Multiple joint dislocation - Neonatal death - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Pulmonary insufficiency - Tracheomalacia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
602,What are the treatments for Adult Primary Liver Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with adult primary liver cancer.    - Patients with liver cancer are treated by a team of specialists who are experts in treating liver cancer.     - Seven types of standard treatment are used:         - Surveillance     - Surgery     - Liver transplant     - Ablation therapy     - Embolization therapy     - Targeted therapy     - Radiation therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.     - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with adult primary liver cancer.
                    Different types of treatments are available for patients with adult primary liver cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Patients with liver cancer are treated by a team of specialists who are experts in treating liver cancer.
                    The patient's treatment will be overseen by a medical oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating people with cancer. The medical oncologist may refer the patient to other health professionals who have special training in treating patients with liver cancer. These may include the following specialists:         - Hepatologist (specialist in liver disease).    -  Surgical oncologist.    -  Transplant surgeon.    -  Radiation oncologist.    - Interventional radiologist (a specialist who diagnoses and treats diseases using imaging and the smallest incisions possible).    -  Pathologist.
                
                
                    Seven types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surveillance     Surveillance for lesions smaller than 1 centimeter found during screening. Follow-up every three months is common.       Surgery    A partial hepatectomy (surgery to remove the part of the liver where cancer is found) may be done. A wedge of tissue, an entire lobe, or a larger part of the liver, along with some of the healthy tissue around it is removed. The remaining liver tissue takes over the functions of the liver and may regrow.       Liver transplant    In a liver transplant, the entire liver is removed and replaced with a healthy donated liver. A liver transplant may be done when the disease is in the liver only and a donated liver can be found. If the patient has to wait for a donated liver, other treatment is given as needed.       Ablation therapy     Ablation therapy removes or destroys tissue. Different types of ablation therapy are used for liver cancer:            -  Radiofrequency ablation: The use of special needles that are inserted directly through the skin or through an incision in the abdomen to reach the tumor. High-energy radio waves heat the needles and tumor which kills cancer cells.     -  Microwave therapy: A type of treatment in which the tumor is exposed to high temperatures created by microwaves. This can damage and kill cancer cells or make them more sensitive to the effects of radiation and certain anticancer drugs.      -  Percutaneous ethanol injection: A cancer treatment in which a small needle is used to inject ethanol (pure alcohol) directly into a tumor to kill cancer cells. Several treatments may be needed. Usually local anesthesia is used, but if the patient has many tumors in the liver, general anesthesia may be used.      -  Cryoablation: A treatment that uses an instrument to freeze and destroy cancer cells. This type of treatment is also called cryotherapy and cryosurgery. The doctor may use ultrasound to guide the instrument.     -  Electroporation therapy: A treatment that sends electrical pulses through an electrode placed in a tumor to kill cancer cells. Electroporation therapy is being studied in clinical trials.              Embolization therapy     Embolization therapy is the use of substances to block or decrease the flow of blood through the hepatic artery to the tumor. When the tumor does not get the oxygen and nutrients it needs, it will not continue to grow. Embolization therapy is used for patients who cannot have surgery to remove the tumor or ablation therapy and whose tumor has not spread outside the liver.    The liver receives blood from the hepatic portal vein and the hepatic artery. Blood that comes into the liver from the hepatic portal vein usually goes to the healthy liver tissue. Blood that comes from the hepatic artery usually goes to the tumor. When the hepatic artery is blocked during embolization therapy, the healthy liver tissue continues to receive blood from the hepatic portal vein.     There are two main types of embolization therapy:            -  Transarterial embolization (TAE): A small incision (cut) is made in the inner thigh and a catheter (thin, flexible tube) is inserted and threaded up into the hepatic artery. Once the catheter is in place, a substance that blocks the hepatic artery and stops blood flow to the tumor is injected.     -  Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE): This procedure is like TAE except an anticancer drug is also given. The procedure can be done by attaching the anticancer drug to small beads that are injected into the hepatic artery or by injecting the anticancer drug through the catheter into the hepatic artery and then injecting the substance to block the hepatic artery. Most of the anticancer drug is trapped near the tumor and only a small amount of the drug reaches other parts of the body. This type of treatment is also called chemoembolization.              Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Adult liver cancer may be treated with a targeted therapy drug that stops cells from dividing and prevents the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow.     See Drugs Approved for Liver Cancer for more information.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer. Certain ways of giving radiation therapy can help keep radiation from damaging nearby healthy tissue. These types of external radiation therapy include the following:                  -  Conformal radiation therapy: Conformal radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy that uses a computer to make a 3-dimensional (3-D) picture of the tumor and shapes the radiation beams to fit the tumor. This allows a high dose of radiation to reach the tumor and causes less damage to nearby healthy tissue.       -  Stereotactic body radiation therapy: Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a type of external radiation therapy. Special equipment is used to place the patient in the same position for each radiation treatment. Once a day for several days, a radiation machine aims a larger than usual dose of radiation directly at the tumor. By having the patient in the same position for each treatment, there is less damage to nearby healthy tissue. This procedure is also called stereotactic external-beam radiation therapy and stereotaxic radiation therapy.       -  Proton beam radiation therapy: Proton-beam therapy is a type of high-energy, external radiation therapy. A radiation therapy machine aims streams of protons (tiny, invisible, positively-charged particles) at the cancer cells to kill them. This type of treatment causes less damage to nearby healthy tissue.                -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat adult primary liver cancer.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                 
								            Treatment Options for Adult Primary Liver Cancer
								            
								                
								                    Stages 0, A, and B Adult Primary Liver Cancer
								                    Treatment of stages 0, A, and B adult primary liver cancer may include the following:         -  Surveillance for lesions smaller than 1 centimeter.    - Partial hepatectomy.    - Total hepatectomy and liver transplant.    -  Ablation of the tumor using one of the following methods:               -  Radiofrequency ablation.      -  Microwave therapy.      -  Percutaneous ethanol injection.      -  Cryoablation.             - A clinical trial  of electroporation therapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage 0 adult primary liver cancer (BCLC), stage A adult primary liver cancer (BCLC) and stage B adult primary liver cancer (BCLC). For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
								                
								                
								                    Stages C and D Adult Primary Liver Cancer
								                    Treatment of stages C and D adult primary liver cancer may include the following:         -  Embolization therapy using one of the following methods:               -  Transarterial embolization (TAE).      -  Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).             -  Targeted therapy.    -  Radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy after chemoembolization or combined with chemotherapy.    - A clinical trial of new targeted therapy drugs.    - A clinical trial of targeted therapy with or without stereotactic body radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of stereotactic body radiation therapy or proton-beam radiation therapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage C adult primary liver cancer (BCLC) and stage D adult primary liver cancer (BCLC). For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
603,What is (are) Subcortical band heterotopia ?,"Subcortical band heterotopia, also known as double cortex syndrome, is a condition of abnormal brain development that is present from birth.  This condition which primarily affects females, occurs when neurons migrate to an area of the brain where they are not supposed to be (heterotopia), and form abnormal areas that appear as band-like clusters of white tissue underneath the gray tissue of the cerebral cortex (subcortical), creating the appearance of a double cortex. Symptoms associated with subcortical band heterotopia vary from severe intellectual disability and epilepsy to normal intelligence with mild or no epilepsy. Subcortical band heterotopia is most often caused by mutations in the DCX gene. The condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. Some cases may be caused by a small deletion on chromosome 17 involving the LIS1 gene. Management consists of seizure control."
604,Is congenital hemidysplasia with ichthyosiform erythroderma and limb defects inherited ?,"This condition has an X-linked dominant pattern of inheritance. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. The inheritance is dominant if one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition.  Most cases of CHILD syndrome occur sporadically, which means only one member of a family is affected. Rarely, the condition can run in families and is passed from mother to daughter. Researchers believe that CHILD syndrome occurs almost exclusively in females because affected males die before birth. Only one male with CHILD syndrome has been reported."
605,What are the treatments for Baylisascaris infection ?,"How might Baylisascaris infection be treated? No drug has been found to be completely effective in treating Baylisascaris infections in humans. Albendazole is currently considered to be the drug of choice. Corticosteroids may also be given to reduce inflammation. In many cases, significant damage has already occurred by the time treatment has started. Early diagnosis and treatment provide the best chance of recovery."
606,What are the symptoms of Radius absent anogenital anomalies ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Radius absent anogenital anomalies? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Radius absent anogenital anomalies. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 90% Hydrocephalus 90% Oligohydramnios 90% Split hand 90% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Urogenital fistula 50% Absent radius - Anal atresia - Penile hypospadias - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
607,What is (are) Ectopic Pregnancy ?,"The uterus, or womb, is the place where a baby grows when a woman is pregnant. If you have an ectopic pregnancy, the fertilized egg grows in the wrong place, outside the uterus, usually in the fallopian tubes. The result is usually a miscarriage.    Ectopic pregnancy can be a medical emergency if it ruptures. Signs of ectopic pregnancy include       - Abdominal pain    - Shoulder pain    - Vaginal bleeding    - Feeling dizzy or faint       Get medical care right away if you have these signs. Doctors use drugs or surgery to remove the ectopic tissue so it doesn't damage your organs. Many women who have had ectopic pregnancies go on to have healthy pregnancies later.    Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
608,What are the treatments for recombinant 8 syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of recombinant 8 syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Recombinant chromosome 8 syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
609,How to diagnose Oropharyngeal Cancer ?,"Tests that examine the mouth and throat are used to help detect (find), diagnose, and stage oropharyngeal cancer. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as swollen lymph nodes in the neck or anything else that seems unusual. The medical doctor or dentist does a complete exam of the mouth and neck and looks under the tongue and down the throat with a small, long-handled mirror to check for abnormal areas. An exam of the eyes may be done to check for vision problems that are caused by nerves in the head and neck. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   PET-CT scan : A procedure that combines the pictures from a positron emission tomography (PET) scan and a computed tomography (CT) scan. The PET and CT scans are done at the same time with the same machine. The combined scans give more detailed pictures of areas inside the body than either scan gives by itself. A PET-CT scan may be used to help diagnose disease, such as cancer, plan treatment, or find out how well treatment is working.               -  CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the head and neck, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye is injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.       -  PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.             -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer. A fine-needle biopsy is usually done to remove a sample of tissue using a thin needle. The following procedures may be used to remove samples of cells or tissue:               -  Endoscopy : A procedure to look at organs and tissues inside the body to check for abnormal areas. An endoscope is inserted through an incision (cut) in the skin or opening in the body, such as the mouth or nose. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove abnormal tissue or lymph node samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of disease. The nose, throat, back of the tongue, esophagus, stomach, larynx, windpipe, and large airways will be checked. The type of endoscopy is named for the part of the body that is being examined. For example, pharyngoscopy is an exam to check the pharynx.       -  Laryngoscopy : A procedure in which the doctor checks the larynx with a mirror or with a laryngoscope. A laryngoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove abnormal tissue or lymph node samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of disease.          If cancer is found, the following test may be done to study the cancer cells:               -  HPV test (human papillomavirus test): A laboratory test used to check the sample of tissue for certain types of HPV infection. This test is done because oropharyngeal cancer can be caused by HPV."
610,Is Sjgren syndrome inherited ?,"A predisposition to develop autoimmune disorders can be passed through generations in families. Relatives of people with Sjgren syndrome are at an increased risk of developing autoimmune diseases, although they are not necessarily more likely to develop Sjgren syndrome in particular. The inheritance pattern of this predisposition is unknown."
611,Is X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation must be present in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  In X-linked recessive inheritance, a female with one mutated copy of the gene in each cell is called a carrier. She can pass on the altered gene, but usually does not experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In rare cases, however, females who carry a NR0B1 mutation may experience adrenal insufficiency or signs of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism such as underdeveloped reproductive tissues, delayed puberty, and an absence of menstruation."
612,What are the complications of Crohn's Disease ?,"Complications of Crohn's disease can include
                
- bowel obstruction. Crohn's disease can thicken the wall of the intestine. Over time, the thickened areas of the intestine can narrow, which can block the intestine. A partial or complete obstruction, also called a bowel blockage, can block the movement of food or stool through the intestines. A complete bowel obstruction is life threatening and requires immediate medical attention and often surgery.  - fistulasabnormal passages, or tunnels, between two organs, or between an organ and the outside of the body. How a health care provider treats fistulas depends on their type and severity. For some people, fistulas heal with medication and diet changes, while other people will need to have surgery.  - anal fissuressmall tears in the anus that may cause itching, pain, or bleeding. Most anal fissures heal with medical treatment, including ointments, warm baths, and dietary changes.  - ulcers. Inflammation anywhere along the GI tract can lead to ulcers or open sores in a person's mouth, intestines, anus, and perineumthe area between the anus and the sex organs. In most cases, the treatment a health care provider prescribes for Crohn's disease will also treat the ulcers.  - malnutritiona condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of vitamins, minerals, and nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function. Some people may need IV fluids or feeding tubes to replace lost nutrients and fluids.  - inflammation in other areas of the body. The immune system can trigger inflammation in the      - joints    - eyes    - skin
                
Health care providers can treat inflammation by adjusting medications or prescribing new medications.
                

                
Crohn's Disease and Colon Cancer   People with Crohn's disease in the large intestine may be more likely to develop colon cancer. People who receive ongoing treatment and remain in remission may reduce their chances of developing colon cancer.   People with Crohn's disease should talk with their health care provider about how often they should get screened for colon cancer. Screening can include colonoscopy with biopsies. Such screening does not reduce a person's chances of developing colon cancer. Instead, screening can help diagnose cancer early and improve chances for recovery."
613,What are the symptoms of Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multiple mitochondrial dysfunctions syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of mitochondrial metabolism - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral atrophy - Congenital onset - Death in infancy - Decreased activity of mitochondrial respiratory chain - Dilated cardiomyopathy - Encephalopathy - Epileptic encephalopathy - Failure to thrive - Feeding difficulties - Hepatomegaly - High palate - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Intrauterine growth retardation - Lactic acidosis - Lethargy - Metabolic acidosis - Microcephaly - Muscle weakness - Polyhydramnios - Polymicrogyria - Pulmonary hypertension - Respiratory failure - Retrognathia - Seizures - Severe muscular hypotonia - Vomiting - Wide intermamillary distance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
614,What is (are) ZAP70-related severe combined immunodeficiency ?,"ZAP70-related severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is an inherited disorder that damages the immune system. ZAP70-related SCID is one of several forms of severe combined immunodeficiency, a group of disorders with several genetic causes. Children with SCID lack virtually all immune protection from bacteria, viruses, and fungi. They are prone to repeated and persistent infections that can be very serious or life-threatening. Often the organisms that cause infection in people with this disorder are described as opportunistic because they ordinarily do not cause illness in healthy people. Infants with SCID typically experience pneumonia, chronic diarrhea, and widespread skin rashes. They also grow much more slowly than healthy children. If not treated in a way that restores immune function, children with SCID usually live only a year or two.  Most individuals with ZAP70-related SCID are diagnosed in the first 6 months of life. At least one individual first showed signs of the condition later in childhood and had less severe symptoms, primarily recurrent respiratory and skin infections."
615,What are the symptoms of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 2-methyl-3-hydroxybutyric aciduria. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Choreoathetosis - Delayed speech and language development - Developmental regression - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Hypoglycemia - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Lactic acidosis - Metabolic acidosis - Muscular hypotonia - Nystagmus - Progressive neurologic deterioration - Restlessness - Retinal degeneration - Seizures - Sensorineural hearing impairment - X-linked dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
616,What are the treatments for fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of FXTAS:  - Fragile X Research Foundation of Canada: FXTAS  - Gene Review: Gene Review: FMR1-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Fragile X tremor/ataxia syndrome  - Merck Manual Consumer Version   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
617,What are the symptoms of Marburg hemorrhagic fever (Marburg HF) ?,"After an incubation period of 5-10 days, symptom onset is sudden and marked by fever, chills, headache, and myalgia. Around the fifth day after the onset of symptoms, a maculopapular rash, most prominent on the trunk (chest, back, stomach), may occur. Nausea, vomiting, chest pain, a sore throat, abdominal pain, and diarrhea may then appear. Symptoms become increasingly severe and can include jaundice, inflammation of the pancreas, severe weight loss, delirium, shock, liver failure, massive hemorrhaging, and multi-organ dysfunction. 
 
Because many of the signs and symptoms of Marburg hemorrhagic fever are similar to those of other infectious diseases such as malaria or typhoid fever, clinical diagnosis of the disease can be difficult, especially if only a single case is involved. 
 
The case-fatality rate for Marburg hemorrhagic fever is between 23-90%. For a complete listing of the case fatality rates for previous outbreaks, please see the History of Outbreaks table"
618,What are the symptoms of Acrocapitofemoral dysplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Acrocapitofemoral dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Acrocapitofemoral dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the femur 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cone-shaped epiphysis 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Micromelia 90% Short stature 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 50% Anonychia 50% Genu varum 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Macrocephaly 7.5% Narrow chest 7.5% Pectus carinatum 7.5% Pectus excavatum 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Short thorax 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad nail - Cone-shaped capital femoral epiphysis - Cone-shaped epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal - Coxa vara - Cupped ribs - Delayed ossification of carpal bones - Disproportionate short stature - Disproportionate short-limb short stature - Dysplasia of the femoral head - Enlargement of the distal femoral epiphysis - Fibular overgrowth - Flared iliac wings - Hypoplasia of the radius - Hypoplasia of the ulna - Hypoplastic iliac wing - Lumbar hyperlordosis - Ovoid vertebral bodies - Relative macrocephaly - Short distal phalanx of finger - Short femoral neck - Short femur - Short humerus - Short metacarpal - Short palm - Short proximal phalanx of finger - Short proximal phalanx of thumb - Short ribs - Short tibia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
619,What are the stages of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (Islet Cell Tumors) ?,"Key Points
                    - The plan for cancer treatment depends on where the NET is found in the pancreas and whether it has spread.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    The plan for cancer treatment depends on where the NET is found in the pancreas and whether it has spread.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the pancreas or to other parts of the body is called staging. The results of the tests and procedures used to diagnose pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) are also used to find out whether the cancer has spread. See the General Information section for a description of these tests and procedures.    Although there is a standard staging system for pancreatic NETs, it is not used to plan treatment. Treatment of pancreatic NETs is based on the following:          - Whether the cancer is found in one place in the pancreas.    - Whether the cancer is found in several places in the pancreas.    - Whether the cancer has spread to lymph nodes near the pancreas or to other parts of the body such as the liver, lung, peritoneum, or bone.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of tumor as the primary tumor. For example, if a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor spreads to the liver, the tumor cells in the liver are actually neuroendocrine tumor cells. The disease is metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, not liver cancer."
620,What are the symptoms of Gestational trophoblastic tumor ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Gestational trophoblastic tumor? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gestational trophoblastic tumor. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the menstrual cycle 90% Spontaneous abortion 90% Neoplasm of the liver 50% Neoplasm of the lung 50% Neoplasm of the nervous system 50% Renal neoplasm 50% Vaginal neoplasm 50% Abnormality of the genitourinary system - Autosomal recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
621,What are the genetic changes related to abetalipoproteinemia ?,"Mutations in the MTTP gene cause abetalipoproteinemia. The MTTP gene provides instructions for making a protein called microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, which is essential for creating beta-lipoproteins. These lipoproteins are necessary for the absorption of fats, cholesterol, and fat-soluble vitamins from the diet and the efficient transport of these substances in the bloodstream. Most of the mutations in the MTTP gene lead to the production of an abnormally short microsomal triglyceride transfer protein, which prevents the normal creation of beta-lipoproteins in the body. A lack of beta-lipoproteins causes the nutritional and neurological problems seen in people with abetalipoproteinemia."
622,How many people are affected by autoimmune Addison disease ?,"Addison disease affects approximately 11 to 14 in 100,000 people of European descent. The autoimmune form of the disorder is the most common form in developed countries, accounting for up to 90 percent of cases."
623,"What are the symptoms of Gingival fibromatosis, 1 ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Gingival fibromatosis, 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gingival fibromatosis, 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Gingival fibromatosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
624,What are the treatments for Sudden Cardiac Arrest ?,"Emergency Treatment
                
Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is an emergency. A person having SCA needs to be treated with a defibrillator right away. This device sends an electric shock to the heart. The electric shock can restore a normal rhythm to a heart that's stopped beating.
                
To work well, defibrillation must be done within minutes of SCA. With every minute that passes, the chances of surviving SCA drop rapidly.
                
Police, emergency medical technicians, and other first responders usually are trained and equipped to use a defibrillator. Call 911 right away if someone has signs or symptoms of SCA. The sooner you call for help, the sooner lifesaving treatment can begin.
                
Automated External Defibrillators
                
Automated external defibrillators (AEDs) are special defibrillators that untrained bystanders can use. These portable devices often are found in public places, such as shopping malls, golf courses, businesses, airports, airplanes, casinos, convention centers, hotels, sports venues, and schools.
                
AEDs are programmed to give an electric shock if they detect a dangerous arrhythmia, such as ventricular fibrillation. This prevents giving a shock to someone who may have fainted but isn't having SCA.
                
You should give cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to a person having SCA until defibrillation can be done.
                
People who are at risk for SCA may want to consider having an AED at home. A 2008 study by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the National Institutes of Health found that AEDs in the home are safe and effective.
                
Some people feel that placing these devices in homes will save many lives because many SCAs occur at home.Others note that no evidence supports the idea that home-use AEDs save more lives. These people fear that people who have AEDs in their homes will delay calling for help during an emergency. They're also concerned that people who have home-use AEDs will not properly maintain the devices or forget where they are.
                
When considering a home-use AED, talk with your doctor. He or she can help you decide whether having an AED in your home will benefit you.
                
Treatment in a Hospital
                
If you survive SCA, you'll likely be admitted to a hospital for ongoing care and treatment. In the hospital, your medical team will closely watch your heart. They may give you medicines to try to reduce the risk of another SCA.
                
While in the hospital, your medical team will try to find out what caused your SCA. If you're diagnosed with coronary heart disease, you may havepercutaneous coronary intervention, also known as coronary angioplasty,or coronary artery bypass grafting. These procedures help restore blood flow through narrowed or blocked coronary arteries.
                
Often, people who have SCA get a device called an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). This small device is surgically placed under the skin in your chest or abdomen. An ICD uses electric pulses or shocks to help control dangerous arrhythmias. (For more information, go to ""How Can Death Due to Sudden Cardiac Arrest Be Prevented?"")"
625,What are the symptoms of Primary orthostatic tremor ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Primary orthostatic tremor? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Primary orthostatic tremor. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) EMG abnormality 90% Flexion contracture 90% Tremor 90% Myalgia 50% Abnormality of extrapyramidal motor function 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
626,What is (are) Myotonia Congenita ?,"Myotonia congenita is an inherited neuromuscular disorder characterized by the inability of muscles to quickly relax after a voluntary contraction. The condition is present from early childhood, but symptoms can be mild. Most children will be 2 or 3 years old when parents first notice their muscle stiffness, particularly in the legs, often provoked by sudden activity after rest. The disease doesnt cause muscle wasting; in fact, it may cause muscle enlargement. Muscle strength is increased. There are two forms of the disorder: Becker-type, which is the most common form; and Thomsens disease, which is a rare and milder form. The disorder is cause by mutations in a gene responsible for shutting off electrical excitation in the muscles."
627,What are the genetic changes related to mucopolysaccharidosis type I ?,"Mutations in the IDUA gene cause MPS I. The IDUA gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme that is involved in the breakdown of large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). GAGs were originally called mucopolysaccharides, which is where this condition gets its name. Mutations in the IDUA gene reduce or completely eliminate the function of the IDUA enzyme. The lack of IDUA enzyme activity leads to the accumulation of GAGs within cells, specifically inside the lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments in the cell that digest and recycle different types of molecules. Conditions that cause molecules to build up inside the lysosomes, including MPS I, are called lysosomal storage disorders. The accumulation of GAGs increases the size of the lysosomes, which is why many tissues and organs are enlarged in this disorder. Researchers believe that the GAGs may also interfere with the functions of other proteins inside the lysosomes and disrupt the movement of molecules inside the cell."
628,What causes Fibrolamellar carcinoma ?,"What causes fibrolamellar carcinoma? The exact underlying cause of fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is poorly understood. Other forms of liver cancer are often associated with liver cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) which may be caused by alcohol abuse; autoimmune diseases of the liver; Hepatitis B or C viral infections; chronic inflammation of the liver; and/or hemochromatosis. However, FLC typically occurs in the absence of underlying liver inflammation or scarring; thus, specific risk factors for this condition remain unidentified. Recent research suggests that a deletion on chromosome 19 may play a key role in the formation of FLC. This deletion is called a ""somatic mutation"" since it is only present in the cells of the liver. Somatic mutations accumulate during a person's lifetime and are not inherited or passed on to future generations."
629,What are the symptoms of Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Intellectual disability 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Brachydactyly syndrome - Cataract - Cognitive impairment - Delayed eruption of teeth - Depressed nasal bridge - Full cheeks - Hypoplasia of dental enamel - Nystagmus - Obesity - Osteoporosis - Phenotypic variability - Pseudohypoparathyroidism - Round face - Short metacarpal - Short metatarsal - Short neck - Short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
630,What is (are) Skin Conditions ?,"Your skin is your body's largest organ. It covers and protects your body. Your skin       - Holds body fluids in, preventing dehydration    - Keeps harmful microbes out, preventing infections    - Helps you feel things like heat, cold, and pain    - Keeps your body temperature even    - Makes vitamin D when the sun shines on it       Anything that irritates, clogs, or inflames your skin can cause symptoms such as redness, swelling, burning, and itching. Allergies, irritants, your genetic makeup, and certain diseases and immune system problems can cause rashes, hives, and other skin conditions. Many skin problems, such as acne, also affect your appearance.    NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
631,What is (are) Encephalitis lethargica ?,"Encephalitis lethargica is a disease characterized by high fever, headache, double vision, delayed physical and mental response, extreme tiredness (lethargy), and sometimes coma. Patients may also experience abnormal eye movements, upper body weakness, muscule pain, tremors, neck rigidity, and behavioral changes including psychosis. A world-wide epidemic of encephalitis lethargica occurred from 1917 to 1928. The cause of this condition is unknown, and treatment depends on a person's symptoms. Levodopa and other antiparkinson drugs often produce dramatic responses."
632,What are the treatments for primary myelofibrosis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of primary myelofibrosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myelofibrosis  - Merck Manual Professional Version: Primary Myelofibrosis  - Myeloproliferative Neoplasm (MPN) Research Foundation: Primary Myelofibrosis (PMF)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
633,What is (are) Hennekam syndrome ?,"Hennekam syndrome is an inherited disorder resulting from malformation of the lymphatic system, which is part of both the circulatory system and immune system. The lymphatic system consists of a network of vessels that transport lymph fluid and immune cells throughout the body.  The characteristic signs and symptoms of Hennekam syndrome are lymphatic vessels that are abnormally expanded (lymphangiectasia), particularly the vessels that transport lymph fluid to and from the intestines; puffiness or swelling caused by a buildup of fluid (lymphedema); and unusual facial features.  Lymphangiectasia often impedes the flow of lymph fluid and can cause the affected vessels to break open (rupture). In the intestines, ruptured vessels can lead to accumulation of lymph fluid, which interferes with the absorption of nutrients, fats, and proteins. Accumulation of lymph fluid in the abdomen can cause swelling (chylous ascites). Lymphangiectasia can also affect the kidneys, thyroid gland, the outer covering of the lungs (the pleura), the membrane covering the heart (pericardium), or the skin.  The lymphedema in Hennekam syndrome is often noticeable at birth and usually affects the face and limbs. Severely affected infants may have extensive swelling caused by fluid accumulation before birth (hydrops fetalis). The lymphedema usually affects one side of the body more severely than the other (asymmetric) and slowly worsens over time.  Facial features of people with Hennekam syndrome may include a flattened appearance to the middle of the face and the bridge of the nose, puffy eyelids, widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), small ears, and a small mouth with overgrowth of the gums (gingival hypertrophy). Affected individuals may also have an unusually small head (microcephaly) and premature fusion of the skull bones (craniosynostosis).  Individuals with Hennekam syndrome often have intellectual disability that ranges from mild to severe, although most are on the mild end of the range and some have normal intellect. Many individuals with Hennekam syndrome have growth delay, respiratory problems, permanently bent fingers and toes (camptodactyly), or fusion of the skin between the fingers and toes (cutaneous syndactyly).  Abnormalities found in a few individuals with Hennekam syndrome include a moderate to severe shortage of red blood cells (anemia) resulting from an inadequate amount (deficiency) of iron in the bloodstream, multiple spleens (polysplenia), misplaced kidneys, genital anomalies, a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia), heart abnormalities, hearing loss, excessive body hair growth (hirsutism), a narrow upper chest that may have a sunken appearance (pectus excavatum), an abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis), and inward- and upward-turning feet (clubfeet).  The signs and symptoms of Hennekam syndrome vary widely among affected individuals, even those within the same family. Life expectancy depends on the severity of the condition and can vary from death in childhood to survival into adulthood."
634,"What are the treatments for immune dysregulation, polyendocrinopathy, enteropathy, X-linked syndrome ?",These resources address the diagnosis or management of IPEX syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: IPEX Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus secretory diarrhea syndrome  - Seattle Children's Hospital   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
635,What is (are) Larsen syndrome ?,"Larsen syndrome is a disorder that affects the development of bones throughout the body. The signs and symptoms of Larsen syndrome vary widely even within the same family. Affected individuals are usually born with inward- and upward-turning feet (clubfeet) and dislocations of the hips, knees, and elbows. They generally have small extra bones in their wrists and ankles that are visible on x-ray images. The tips of their fingers, especially the thumbs, are typically blunt and square-shaped (spatulate).  People with Larsen syndrome may also have an unusually large range of joint movement (hypermobility) and short stature. They can also have abnormal curvature of the spine (kyphosis or scoliosis) that may compress the spinal cord and lead to weakness of the limbs.  Characteristic facial features include a prominent forehead (frontal bossing), flattening of the bridge of the nose and of the middle of the face (midface hypoplasia), and wide-set eyes (ocular hypertelorism). Some people with Larsen syndrome have an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate) or hearing loss caused by malformations in the tiny bones in the ears (ossicles). Some affected individuals experience respiratory problems as a result of weakness of the airways that can lead to partial closing, short pauses in breathing (apnea), and frequent respiratory infections. People with Larsen syndrome can survive into adulthood and intelligence is unaffected."
636,What is (are) Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance ?,"Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is a condition in which an abnormal protein called monoclonal protein is detected in the blood. MGUS typically does not cause any problems, although some affected people may experience numbness, tingling or weakness. In some cases, MGUS may progress over time to certain forms of blood cancer (such as multiple myeloma, macroglobulinemia, or B-cell lymphoma). MGUS is thought to be a multifactorial condition that is likely associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. People with MGUS are usually monitored closely to ensure that the levels of monoclonal protein do not rise and other problems do not develop. Those with stable levels of monoclonal protein typically do not require treatment."
637,"What are the treatments for T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy ?","These resources address the diagnosis or management of T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy:  - Be The Match: What is a Bone Marrow Transplant?  - Genetic Testing Registry: T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia and nail dystrophy  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Bone Marrow Transplant   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
638,What are the stages of Breast Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - After breast cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the breast or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for breast cancer:         - Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)     - Stage I      - Stage II     - Stage IIIA     - Stage IIIB     - Stage IIIC     - Stage IV        - The treatment of breast cancer depends partly on the stage of the disease.
                
                
                    After breast cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the breast or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out whether the cancer has spread within the breast or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The results of some of the tests used to diagnose breast cancer are also used to stage the disease. (See the General Information section.)    The following tests and procedures also may be used in the staging process:         -   Sentinel lymph node biopsy : The removal of the sentinel lymph node during surgery. The sentinel lymph node is the first lymph node to receive lymphatic drainage from a tumor. It is the first lymph node the cancer is likely to spread to from the tumor. A radioactive substance and/or blue dye is injected near the tumor. The substance or dye flows through the lymph ducts to the lymph nodes. The first lymph node to receive the substance or dye is removed. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are not found, it may not be necessary to remove more lymph nodes.     -   Chest x-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones and is detected by a scanner.    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if breast cancer spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually breast cancer cells. The disease is metastatic breast cancer, not bone cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for breast cancer:
                    This section describes the stages of breast cancer. The breast cancer stage is based on the results of tests that are done on the tumor and lymph nodes removed during surgery and on other tests.     Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)    There are 3 types of breast carcinoma in situ:            -  Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is a noninvasive condition in which abnormal cells are found in the lining of a breast duct. The abnormal cells have not spread outside the duct to other tissues in the breast. In some cases, DCIS may become invasive cancer and spread to other tissues. At this time, there is no way to know which lesions could become invasive.     -  Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is a condition in which abnormal cells are found in the lobules of the breast. This condition seldom becomes invasive cancer. Information about LCIS is not included in this summary.     -  Paget disease of the nipple is a condition in which abnormal cells are found in the nipple only.               Stage I      In stage I, cancer has formed. Stage I is divided into stages IA and IB.            - In stage IA, the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller. Cancer has not spread outside the breast.     - In stage IB, small clusters of breast cancer cells (larger than 0.2 millimeter but not larger than 2 millimeters) are found in the lymph nodes and either:                  - no tumor is found in the breast; or       - the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller.                         Stage II     Stage II is divided into stages IIA and IIB.            - In stage IIA:                  - no tumor is found in the breast or the tumor is 2 centimeters or smaller. Cancer (larger than 2 millimeters) is found in 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes or in the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during a sentinel lymph node biopsy); or        - the tumor is larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes.                - In stage IIB, the tumor is:                  - larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters. Small clusters of breast cancer cells (larger than 0.2 millimeter but not larger than 2 millimeters) are found in the lymph nodes; or        - larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has spread to 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes or to the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during a sentinel lymph node biopsy); or        - larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes.                          Stage IIIA     In stage IIIA:            - no tumor is found in the breast or the tumor may be any size. Cancer is found in 4 to 9 axillary lymph nodes or in the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during imaging tests or a physical exam); or      - the tumor is larger than 5 centimeters. Small clusters of breast cancer cells (larger than 0.2 millimeter but not larger than 2 millimeters) are found in the lymph nodes; or      - the tumor is larger than 5 centimeters. Cancer has spread to 1 to 3 axillary lymph nodes or to the lymph nodes near the breastbone (found during a sentinel lymph node biopsy).               Stage IIIB     In stage IIIB, the tumor may be any size and cancer has spread to the chest wall and/or to the skin of the breast and caused swelling or an ulcer. Also, cancer may have spread to:             - up to 9 axillary lymph nodes; or     - the lymph nodes near the breastbone.           Cancer that has spread to the skin of the breast may also be inflammatory breast cancer. See the section on Inflammatory Breast Cancer for more information.       Stage IIIC     In stage IIIC, no tumor is found in the breast or the tumor may be any size. Cancer may have spread to the skin of the breast and caused swelling or an ulcer and/or has spread to the chest wall. Also, cancer has spread to:             - 10 or more axillary lymph nodes; or     -  lymph nodes above or below the collarbone; or     - axillary lymph nodes and lymph nodes near the breastbone.           Cancer that has spread to the skin of the breast may also be inflammatory breast cancer. See the section on Inflammatory Breast Cancer for more information.       Stage IV     In stage IV, cancer has spread to other organs of the body, most often the bones, lungs, liver, or brain.
                
                
                    The treatment of breast cancer depends partly on the stage of the disease.
                    For ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) treatment options, see Ductal Carcinoma in Situ.   For treatment options for stage I, stage II, stage IIIA, and operable stage IIIC breast cancer, see Early, Localized, or Operable Breast Cancer.   For treatment options for stage IIIB, inoperable stage IIIC, and inflammatory breast cancer, see Locally Advanced or Inflammatory Breast Cancer.   For treatment options for cancer that has recurred near the area where it first formed, see Locoregional Recurrent Breast Cancer.   For treatment options for stage IV breast cancer or breast cancer that has recurred in other parts of the body, see Metastatic Breast Cancer."
639,Is Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell may or may not cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases of X-linked inheritance, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons."
640,What is (are) Short Bowel Syndrome ?,"The small intestine is the tube-shaped organ between the stomach and large intestine. Most food digestion and nutrient absorption take place in the small intestine. The small intestine is about 20 feet long and includes the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum:
                
duodenumthe first part of the small intestine, where iron and other minerals are absorbed
                
jejunumthe middle section of the small intestine, where carbohydrates, proteins, fat, and most vitamins are absorbed
                
ileumthe lower end of the small intestine, where bile acids and vitamin B12 are absorbed"
641,What are the symptoms of Congenital rubella ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital rubella? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital rubella. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cataract 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 50% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 50% Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 50% Anemia 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the iris 50% Atria septal defect 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Glaucoma 50% Hepatomegaly 50% Hypertonia 50% Microcephaly 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Nystagmus 50% Patent ductus arteriosus 50% Short stature 50% Skin rash 50% Splenomegaly 50% Strabismus 50% Thrombocytopenia 50% Ventricular septal defect 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of the metaphyses 7.5% Opacification of the corneal stroma 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Type I diabetes mellitus 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
642,How to diagnose Uterine Sarcoma ?,"Tests that examine the uterus are used to detect (find) and diagnose uterine sarcoma. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -  Pelvic exam: An exam of the vagina, cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, and rectum. A speculum is inserted into the vagina and the doctor or nurse looks at the vagina and cervix for signs of disease. A Pap test of the cervix is usually done. The doctor or nurse also inserts one or two lubricated, gloved fingers of one hand into the vagina and places the other hand over the lower abdomen to feel the size, shape, and position of the uterus and ovaries. The doctor or nurse also inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into the rectum to feel for lumps or abnormal areas.    -  Pap test: A procedure to collect cells from the surface of the cervix and vagina. A piece of cotton, a brush, or a small wooden stick is used to gently scrape cells from the cervix and vagina. The cells are viewed under a microscope to find out if they are abnormal. This procedure is also called a Pap smear. Because uterine sarcoma begins inside the uterus, this cancer may not show up on the Pap test.     -   Transvaginal ultrasound exam: A procedure used to examine the vagina, uterus, fallopian tubes, and bladder. An ultrasound transducer (probe) is inserted into the vagina and used to bounce high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) off internal tissues or organs and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram. The doctor can identify tumors by looking at the sonogram.     -   Dilatation and curettage : A procedure to remove samples of tissue from the inner lining of the uterus. The cervix is dilated and a curette (spoon-shaped instrument) is inserted into the uterus to remove tissue. The tissue samples are checked under a microscope for signs of disease. This procedure is also called a D&C.    -   Endometrial biopsy : The removal of tissue from the endometrium (inner lining of the uterus) by inserting a thin, flexible tube through the cervix and into the uterus. The tube is used to gently scrape a small amount of tissue from the endometrium and then remove the tissue samples. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells."
643,Is Lynch syndrome inherited ?,"Is Lynch syndrome an inherited condition? Lynch syndrome cancer risk is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one inherited copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase cancer risk. It is important to note that people inherit an increased risk of cancer, not the disease itself. Not all people who inherit mutations in these genes will develop cancer."
644,What are the treatments for Fanconi Anemia ?,"Doctors decide how to treat Fanconi anemia (FA) based on a person's age and how well the person's bone marrow is making new blood cells.
                
Goals of Treatment
                
Long-term treatments for FA can:
                
Cure the anemia. Damaged bone marrow cells are replaced with healthy ones that can make enough of all three types of blood cells on their own.
                
Or
                
Treat the symptoms without curing the cause. This is done using medicines and other substances that can help your body make more blood cells for a limited time.
                
Screening and Short-Term Treatment
                
Even if you or your child has FA, your bone marrow might still be able to make enough new blood cells. If so, your doctor might suggest frequent blood count checks so he or she can watch your condition.
                
Your doctor will probably want you to have bone marrow tests once a year. He or she also will screen you for any signs of cancer or tumors.
                
If your blood counts begin to drop sharply and stay low, your bone marrow might be failing. Your doctor may prescribe antibiotics to help your body fight infections. In the short term, he or she also may want to give you blood transfusions to increase your blood cell counts to normal levels.
                
However, long-term use of blood transfusions can reduce the chance that other treatments will work.
                
Long-Term Treatment
                
The four main types of long-term treatment for FA are:
                
Blood and marrow stem cell transplant
                
Androgen therapy
                
Synthetic growth factors
                
Gene therapy
                
Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant
                
A blood and marrow stem cell transplant is the current standard treatment for patients who have FA that's causing major bone marrow failure. Healthy stem cells from another person, called a donor, are used to replace the faulty cells in your bone marrow.
                
If you're going to receive stem cells from another person, your doctor will want to find a donor whose stem cells match yours as closely as possible.
                
Stem cell transplants are most successful in younger people who:
                
Have few or no serious health problems
                
Receive stem cells from a brother or sister who is a good donor match 
                
Have had few or no previous blood transfusions
                
During the transplant, you'll get donated stem cells in a procedure that's like a blood transfusion. Once the new stem cells are in your body, they travel to your bone marrow and begin making new blood cells.
                
A successful stem cell transplant will allow your body to make enough of all three types of blood cells.
                
Even if you've had a stem cell transplant to treat FA, youre still at risk for some types of blood cancer and cancerous solid tumors. Your doctor will check your health regularly after the procedure.
                
For more information about stem cell transplantsincluding finding a donor, having the procedure, and learning about the risksgo to the Health Topics Blood and Marrow Stem Cell Transplant article.
                
Androgen Therapy
                
Before improvements made stem cell transplants more effective, androgen therapy was the standard treatment for people who had FA. Androgens are man-made male hormones that can help your body make more blood cells for long periods.
                
Androgens increase your red blood cell and platelet counts. They don't work as well at raising your white blood cell count.
                
Unlike a stem cell transplant, androgens don't allow your bone marrow to make enough of all three types of blood cells on its own. You may need ongoing treatment with androgens to control the effects of FA.
                
Also, over time, androgens lose their ability to help your body make more blood cells, which means you'll need other treatments.
                
Androgen therapy can have serious side effects, such as liver disease. This treatment also can't prevent you from developing leukemia (a type of blood cancer).
                
Synthetic Growth Factors
                
Your doctor may choose to treat your FA with growth factors. These are substances found in your body, but they also can be man-made.
                
Growth factors help your body make more red and white blood cells. Growth factors that help your body make more platelets still are being studied.
                
More research is needed on growth factor treatment for FA. Early results suggest that growth factors may have fewer and less serious side effects than androgens.
                
Gene Therapy
                
Researchers are looking for ways to replace faulty FA genes with normal, healthy genes. They hope these genes will make proteins that can repair and protect your bone marrow cells. Early results of this therapy hold promise, but more research is needed.
                
Surgery
                
FA can cause birth defects that affect the arms, thumbs, hips, legs, and other parts of the body. Doctors may recommend surgery to repair some defects.
                
For example, your child might be born with a ventricular septal defecta hole or defect in the wall that separates the lower chambers of the heart. His or her doctor may recommend surgery to close the hole so the heart can work properly.
                
Children who have FA also may need surgery to correct digestive system problems that can harm their nutrition, growth, and survival.
                
One of the most common problems is an FA-related birth defect in which the trachea (windpipe), which carries air to the lungs, is connected to the esophagus, which carries food to the stomach.
                
This can cause serious breathing, swallowing, and eating problems and can lead to lung infections. Surgery is needed to separate the two organs and allow normal eating and breathing."
645,What is the outlook for Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease ?,"About 70 percent of individuals die within one year. In the early stages of disease, people may have failing memory, behavioral changes, lack of coordination and visual disturbances. As the illness progresses, mental deterioration becomes pronounced and involuntary movements, blindness, weakness of extremities, and coma may occur."
646,How many people are affected by metatropic dysplasia ?,Metatropic dysplasia is a rare disease; its exact prevalence is unknown. More than 80 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.
647,What are the genetic changes related to adenosine monophosphate deaminase deficiency ?,"Mutations in the AMPD1 gene cause AMP deaminase deficiency. The AMPD1 gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called AMP deaminase. This enzyme is found in skeletal muscle, where it plays a role in producing energy within muscle cells. Mutations in the AMPD1 gene disrupt the function of AMP deaminase and impair the muscle cells' ability to produce energy. This lack of energy can lead to myalgia or other muscle problems associated with AMP deaminase deficiency.  The three types of AMP deaminase deficiency are known as the inherited type, acquired type, and coincidental inherited type.  Individuals with the inherited type have a mutation in both copies of the AMPD1 gene in each cell. Most people are asymptomatic, meaning they have no symptoms. Some people with AMP deaminase deficiency experience muscle weakness or pain following exercise.  The acquired type occurs in people who have decreased levels of AMP deaminase due to the presence of a muscle or joint condition.  People with the coincidental inherited type have a mutation in both copies of the AMPD1 gene. Additionally, they have a separate joint or muscle disorder. Some individuals experience more severe joint or muscle symptoms related to their disorder if they have AMP deaminase deficiency than do people without this enzyme deficiency. Most, however, do not have any symptoms associated with AMP deaminase deficiency.  It is not known why most people with this condition do not experience symptoms. Researchers speculate that additional mutations in other genes may be involved."
648,What are the symptoms of Marshall-Smith syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Marshall-Smith syndrome? Marshall-Smith syndrome is characterized by accelerated skeletal maturation, relative failure to thrive, respiratory difficulties, mental retardation, and unusual facies, including wide and prominent forehead, protruding and widely spaced eyes, blue sclerae (the white part of the eye), depressed nasal bridge, a small, upturned nose, and micrognathia. There are often problems with structures in the respiratory tract (such as the larynx and trachea) and this can lead to difficulty with breathing and frequent infections. Pneumonia is common. Severe feeding difficulties may also result. X-rays show advanced bone age and short and conical phalanges (finger and/or toes bones). The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Marshall-Smith syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Accelerated skeletal maturation 90% Anteverted nares 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Frontal bossing 90% Hyperextensible skin 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Proptosis 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Slender long bone 90% Thin skin 90% Abnormality of the tongue 50% Blue sclerae 50% Bruising susceptibility 50% Conductive hearing impairment 50% Hypertelorism 50% Hypertrichosis 50% Laryngomalacia 50% Open mouth 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Scoliosis 50% Short nose 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 7.5% Choanal atresia 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Gingival overgrowth 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Ventriculomegaly 7.5% Agenesis of corpus callosum - Atlantoaxial dislocation - Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bullet-shaped middle phalanges of the hand - Cerebral atrophy - Choanal stenosis - Death in childhood - Decreased body weight - Distal widening of metacarpals - Failure to thrive - Glossoptosis - Hearing impairment - Hypoplasia of midface - Hypoplasia of the odontoid process - Intellectual disability - Irregular dentition - Large sternal ossification centers - Low-set ears - Macrogyria - Malar flattening - Motor delay - Muscular hypotonia - Obstructive sleep apnea - Omphalocele - Overfolded helix - Patent ductus arteriosus - Pectus excavatum - Prominence of the premaxilla - Prominent forehead - Pulmonary hypertension - Recurrent aspiration pneumonia - Retrognathia - Shallow orbits - Short distal phalanx of finger - Short mandibular rami - Short philtrum - Short sternum - Sporadic - Synophrys - Tall stature - Thick eyebrow - Umbilical hernia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
649,Is geleophysic dysplasia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
650,What are the symptoms of Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?,"The signs and symptoms of anemia in someone with CKD may include
                
- weakness  - fatigue, or feeling tired  - headaches  - problems with concentration  - paleness  - dizziness  - difficulty breathing or shortness of breath  - chest pain
                
Anyone having difficulty breathing or with shortness of breath should seek immediate medical care. Anyone who has chest pain should call 911."
651,What are the treatments for cap myopathy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of cap myopathy:  - Genetic Testing Registry: TPM2-related cap myopathy  - Genetic Testing Registry: cap myopathy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
652,How to prevent Cardiomyopathy ?,"You can't prevent inherited types of cardiomyopathy. However, you can take steps to lower your risk for diseases or conditions that may lead to or complicate cardiomyopathy. Examples includecoronary heart disease,high blood pressure, andheart attack.
                
Your doctor may advise you to make heart-healthy lifestyle changes, such as:
                
Avoiding the use of alcohol and illegal drugs
                
Getting enough sleep and rest
                
Heart-healthy eating
                
Physicalactivity
                
Quitting smoking
                
Managing stress
                
Your cardiomyopathy may be due to an underlying disease or condition. If you treat that condition early enough, you may be able to prevent cardiomyopathy complications. For example, to control high blood pressure,high blood cholesterol, and diabetes:
                
Follow your doctors advice about lifestyle changes.
                
Get regular checkups with your doctor.
                
Take all of your medicines as your doctor prescribes."
653,What is (are) Acute respiratory distress syndrome ?,"Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening lung condition that prevents enough oxygen from getting to the lungs and into the blood.  People who develop ARDS often are very ill with another disease or have major injuries. The condition leads to a buildup of fluid in the air sacs which prevents enough oxygen from passing into the bloodstream. Symptoms may include difficulty breathing, low blood pressure and organ failure, rapid breathing and shortness of breath."
654,What is (are) Danon disease ?,"Danon disease is a condition characterized by weakening of the heart muscle (cardiomyopathy); weakening of the muscles used for movement, called skeletal muscles, (myopathy); and intellectual disability. Males with Danon disease usually develop the condition earlier than females and are more severely affected. Signs and symptoms begin in childhood or adolescence in most affected males and in early adulthood in most affected females. Affected males, on average, live to age 19, while affected females live to an average age of 34.  Cardiomyopathy is the most common symptom of Danon disease and occurs in all males with the condition. Most affected men have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which is a thickening of the heart muscle that may make it harder for the heart to pump blood. Other affected males have dilated cardiomyopathy, which is a condition that weakens and enlarges the heart, preventing it from pumping blood efficiently. Some affected men with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy later develop dilated cardiomyopathy. Either type of cardiomyopathy can lead to heart failure and premature death. Most women with Danon disease also develop cardiomyopathy; of the women who have this feature, about half have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and the other half have dilated cardiomyopathy.  Affected individuals can have other heart-related signs and symptoms, including a sensation of fluttering or pounding in the chest (palpitations), an abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia), or chest pain. Many affected individuals have abnormalities of the electrical signals that control the heartbeat (conduction abnormalities). People with Danon disease are often affected by a specific conduction abnormality known as cardiac preexcitation. The type of cardiac preexcitation most often seen in people with Danon disease is called the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome pattern.  Skeletal myopathy occurs in most men with Danon disease and about half of affected women. The weakness typically occurs in the muscles of the upper arms, shoulders, neck, and upper thighs. Many males with Danon disease have elevated levels of an enzyme called creatine kinase in their blood, which often indicates muscle disease.  Most men with Danon disease, but only a small percentage of affected women, have intellectual disability. If present, the disability is usually mild.  There can be other signs and symptoms of the condition in addition to the three characteristic features. Several affected individuals have had gastrointestinal disease, breathing problems, or visual abnormalities."
655,Is Gitelman syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
656,What to do for Dumping Syndrome ?,"- Dumping syndrome occurs when food, especially sugar, moves too fast from the stomach to the duodenumthe first part of the small intestinein the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract.  - Dumping syndrome has two forms, based on when symptoms occur:      - early dumping syndromeoccurs 10 to 30 minutes after a meal    - late dumping syndromeoccurs 2 to 3 hours after a meal    - People who have had surgery to remove or bypass a significant part of the stomach are more likely to develop dumping syndrome. Other conditions that impair how the stomach stores and empties itself of food, such as nerve damage caused by esophageal surgery, can also cause dumping syndrome.  - Early dumping syndrome symptoms include      - nausea    - vomiting    - abdominal pain and cramping    - diarrhea    - feeling uncomfortably full or bloated after a meal    - sweating    - weakness    - dizziness    - flushing, or blushing of the face or skin    - rapid or irregular heartbeat    - The symptoms of late dumping syndrome include      - hypoglycemia    - sweating    - weakness    - rapid or irregular heartbeat    - flushing    - dizziness    - Treatment for dumping syndrome includes changes in eating, diet, and nutrition; medication; and, in some cases, surgery. Many people with dumping syndrome have mild symptoms that improve over time with simple dietary changes."
657,Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?,"Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following risk factors increase the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Age     - Family history of colorectal cancer     - Personal history     - Inherited risk     - Alcohol     - Cigarette smoking     - Obesity        - The following protective factors decrease the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Physical activity     - Aspirin     - Combination hormone replacement therapy      - Polyp removal        - It is not clear if the following affect the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) other than aspirin     - Calcium     - Diet        - The following factors do not affect the risk of colorectal cancer:         - Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen only     - Statins        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    - New ways to prevent colorectal cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors increase the risk of colorectal cancer:
                    Age    The risk of colorectal cancer increases after age 50. Most cases of colorectal cancer are diagnosed after age 50.       Family history of colorectal cancer    Having a parent, brother, sister, or child with colorectal cancer doubles a person's risk of colorectal cancer.       Personal history    Having a personal history of the following conditions increases the risk of colorectal cancer:             - Previous colorectal cancer.     - High-risk adenomas (colorectal polyps that are 1 centimeter or larger in size or that have cells that look abnormal under a microscope).     -  Ovarian cancer.     -  Inflammatory bowel disease (such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease).              Inherited risk    The risk of colorectal cancer is increased when certain gene changes linked to familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC or Lynch Syndrome) are inherited.       Alcohol    Drinking 3 or more alcoholic beverages per day increases the risk of colorectal cancer. Drinking alcohol is also linked to the risk of forming large colorectal adenomas (benign tumors).       Cigarette smoking    Cigarette smoking is linked to an increased risk of colorectal cancer and death from colorectal cancer.    Smoking cigarettes is also linked to an increased risk of forming colorectal adenomas. Cigarette smokers who have had surgery to remove colorectal adenomas are at an increased risk for the adenomas to recur (come back).       Obesity     Obesity is linked to an increased risk of colorectal cancer and death from colorectal cancer.
                
                
                    It is not clear if the following affect the risk of colorectal cancer:
                    Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) other than aspirin    It is not known if the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs (such as sulindac, celecoxib, naproxen, and ibuprofen) lowers the risk of colorectal cancer.     Studies have shown that taking the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug celecoxib reduces the risk of colorectal adenomas (benign tumors) coming back after they have been removed. It is not clear if this results in a lower risk of colorectal cancer.     Taking sulindac or celecoxib has been shown to reduce the number and size of polyps that form in the colon and rectum of people with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). It is not clear if this results in a lower risk of colorectal cancer.    The possible harms of NSAIDs include:            -  Kidney problems.     - Bleeding in the stomach, intestines, or brain.     - Heart problems such as heart attack and congestive heart failure.              Calcium    It is not known if taking calcium supplements lowers the risk of colorectal cancer.        Diet    It is not known if a diet low in fat and meat and high in fiber, fruits, and vegetables lowers the risk of colorectal cancer.     Some studies have shown that a diet high in fat, proteins, calories, and meat increases the risk of colorectal cancer, but other studies have not.
                
                
                    The following factors do not affect the risk of colorectal cancer:
                    Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen only    Hormone replacement therapy with estrogen only does not lower the risk of having invasive colorectal cancer or the risk of dying from colorectal cancer.       Statins    Studies have shown that taking statins (drugs that lower cholesterol) does not increase or decrease the risk of colorectal cancer."
658,What are the symptoms of Brachyolmia type 3 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Brachyolmia type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Brachyolmia type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Kyphosis 90% Platyspondyly 90% Scoliosis 90% Short stature 90% Short thorax 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Barrel-shaped chest - Childhood-onset short-trunk short stature - Clinodactyly - Hypermetropia - Proximal femoral metaphyseal irregularity - Radial deviation of finger - Short femoral neck - Short neck - Spinal cord compression - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
659,What to do for Hemochromatosis ?,"Iron is an essential nutrient found in many foods. Healthy people usually absorb less than 10 percent of iron in the food they eat.6 People with hemochromatosis absorb up to 30 percent of that iron.6 People with hemochromatosis can help prevent iron overload by
                
- eating only moderate amounts of iron-rich foods, such as red meat and organ meat  - avoiding supplements that contain iron  - avoiding supplements that contain vitamin C, which increases iron absorption
                
People with hemochromatosis can take steps to help prevent liver damage, including
                
- limiting the amount of alcoholic beverages they drink because alcohol increases their chance of cirrhosis and liver cancer  - avoiding alcoholic beverages entirely if they already have cirrhosis"
660,What is (are) Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency ?,"Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency is a condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats called long-chain fatty acids into energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting). Carnitine, a natural substance acquired mostly through the diet, is used by cells to process fats and produce energy. People with this disorder have a faulty transporter that disrupts carnitine's role in processing long-chain fatty acids. Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency is a type of fatty acid oxidation disorder. There are two forms of carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency. The most common type happens in newborns. A milder, less common type happens in older infants and children."
661,How many people are affected by prion disease ?,"These disorders are very rare. Although the exact prevalence of prion disease is unknown, studies suggest that this group of conditions affects about one person per million worldwide each year. Approximately 350 new cases are reported annually in the United States."
662,What is (are) Proteus syndrome ?,"Proteus syndrome is a rare condition characterized by overgrowth of the bones, skin, and other tissues. Organs and tissues affected by the disease grow out of proportion to the rest of the body. The overgrowth is usually asymmetric, which means it affects the right and left sides of the body differently. Newborns with Proteus syndrome have few or no signs of the condition. Overgrowth becomes apparent between the ages of 6 and 18 months and gets more severe with age.  In people with Proteus syndrome, the pattern of overgrowth varies greatly but can affect almost any part of the body. Bones in the limbs, skull, and spine are often affected. The condition can also cause a variety of skin growths, particularly a thick, raised, and deeply grooved lesion known as a cerebriform connective tissue nevus. This type of skin growth usually occurs on the soles of the feet and is hardly ever seen in conditions other than Proteus syndrome. Blood vessels (vascular tissue) and fat (adipose tissue) can also grow abnormally in Proteus syndrome.  Some people with Proteus syndrome have neurological abnormalities, including intellectual disability, seizures, and vision loss. Affected individuals may also have distinctive facial features such as a long face, outside corners of the eyes that point downward (down-slanting palpebral fissures), a low nasal bridge with wide nostrils, and an open-mouth expression. For reasons that are unclear, affected people with neurological symptoms are more likely to have distinctive facial features than those without neurological symptoms. It is unclear how these signs and symptoms are related to abnormal growth.  Other potential complications of Proteus syndrome include an increased risk of developing various types of noncancerous (benign) tumors and a type of blood clot called a deep venous thrombosis (DVT). DVTs occur most often in the deep veins of the legs or arms. If these clots travel through the bloodstream, they can lodge in the lungs and cause a life-threatening complication called a pulmonary embolism. Pulmonary embolism is a common cause of death in people with Proteus syndrome."
663,What is (are) ALG12-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?,"ALG12-congenital disorder of glycosylation (ALG12-CDG, also known as congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ig) is an inherited disorder with varying signs and symptoms that can affect several body systems. Individuals with ALG12-CDG typically develop signs and symptoms of the condition during infancy. They may have problems feeding and difficulty growing and gaining weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive). In addition, affected individuals often have intellectual disability, delayed development, and weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and some develop seizures.  Some people with ALG12-CDG have physical abnormalities such as a small head size (microcephaly) and unusual facial features. These features can include folds of skin that cover the inner corners of the eyes (epicanthal folds), a prominent nasal bridge, and abnormally shaped ears. Some males with ALG12-CDG have abnormal genitalia, such as a small penis (micropenis) and undescended testes.  People with ALG12-CDG often produce abnormally low levels of proteins called antibodies (or immunoglobulins), particularly immunoglobulin G (IgG). Antibodies help protect the body against infection by attaching to specific foreign particles and germs, marking them for destruction. A reduction in antibodies can make it difficult for affected individuals to fight infections.  Less common abnormalities seen in people with ALG12-CDG include a weakened heart muscle (cardiomyopathy) and poor bone development, which can lead to skeletal abnormalities."
664,How to diagnose Autoimmune atrophic gastritis ?,How is autoimmune atrophic gastritis diagnosed? A diagnosis of autoimmune atrophic gastritis is generally not suspected until characteristic signs and symptoms are present. Additional testing can then be ordered to confirm the diagnosis. This generally includes: A biopsy of the affected tissue obtained through endoscopy Blood work that demonstrates autoantibodies against certain cells of the stomach
665,What is (are) Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration ?,"Paraneoplastic syndromes are a group of rare disorders that include paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD). Paraneoplastic syndromes are thought to result from an abnormal immune response to an underlying (and often undetected) malignant tumor. PCD is a rare, non-metastatic complication of cancer. PCD is typically thought to be caused by antibodies generated against tumor cells. Instead of just attacking the cancer cells, the cancer-fighting antibodies also attack normal cells in the cerebellum. PCD occurs most often in individuals with the following cancers: ovarian cancer, cancer of the uterus, breast cancer, small-cell lung cancer, and Hodgkin lymphoma. Symptoms of PCD may include dizziness, loss of coordination, blurred vision, nystagmus, ataxia, and speech difficulties."
666,Who is at risk for Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF)? ?,"Ixodid (hard) ticks, especially those of the genus, Hyalomma, are both a reservoir and a vector for the CCHF virus. Numerous wild and domestic animals, such as cattle, goats, sheep and hares, serve as amplifying hosts for the virus. Transmission to humans occurs through contact with infected ticks or animal blood. CCHF can be transmitted from one infected human to another by contact with infectious blood or body fluids. Documented spread of CCHF has also occurred in hospitals due to improper sterilization of medical equipment, reuse of injection needles, and contamination of medical supplies."
667,What is (are) citrullinemia ?,"Citrullinemia is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia and other toxic substances to accumulate in the blood. Two forms of citrullinemia have been described; they have different signs and symptoms and are caused by mutations in different genes.  Type I citrullinemia (also known as classic citrullinemia) usually becomes evident in the first few days of life. Affected infants typically appear normal at birth, but as ammonia builds up in the body they experience a progressive lack of energy (lethargy), poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and loss of consciousness. These medical problems are life-threatening in many cases. Less commonly, a milder form of type I citrullinemia can develop later in childhood or adulthood. This later-onset form is associated with intense headaches, partial loss of vision, problems with balance and muscle coordination (ataxia), and lethargy. Some people with gene mutations that cause type I citrullinemia never experience signs and symptoms of the disorder.  Type II citrullinemia chiefly affects the nervous system, causing confusion, restlessness, memory loss, abnormal behaviors (such as aggression, irritability, and hyperactivity), seizures, and coma. In some cases, the signs and symptoms of this disorder appear during adulthood (adult-onset). These signs and symptoms can be life-threatening, and are known to be triggered by certain medications, infections, surgery, and alcohol intake in people with adult-onset type II citrullinemia.  The features of adult-onset type II citrullinemia may also develop in people who as infants had a liver disorder called neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis caused by citrin deficiency (NICCD). This liver condition is also known as neonatal-onset type II citrullinemia. NICCD blocks the flow of bile (a digestive fluid produced by the liver) and prevents the body from processing certain nutrients properly. In many cases, the signs and symptoms of NICCD resolve within a year. Years or even decades later, however, some of these people develop the characteristic features of adult-onset type II citrullinemia."
668,How to diagnose Freiberg's disease ?,"How is Freiberg's disease diagnosed? A diagnosis of Freiberg's disease is often suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. An X-ray, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and/or bone scan can then be ordered to confirm the diagnosis. Other testing such as laboratory studies may also be recommended to rule out other conditions that cause similar features."
669,What are the symptoms of Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) ?,"Chronic fatigue syndrome can be misdiagnosed or overlooked because its symptoms are similar to so many other illnesses. Fatigue, for instance, can be a symptom for hundreds of illnesses. Looking closer at the nature of the symptoms though, can help a doctor distinguish CFS from other illnesses.
  Primary Symptoms
  
As the name chronic fatigue syndrome suggests, fatigue is one part of this illness. With CFS, however, the fatigue is accompanied by other symptoms. In addition, the fatigue is not the kind you might feel after a particularly busy day or week, after a sleepless night, or after a single stressful event. It's a severe, incapacitating fatigue that isn't improved by bed rest and that is often worsened by physical activity or mental exertion. It's an all-encompassing fatigue that can dramatically reduce a person's activity level and stamina.
  
People with CFS function at a significantly lower level of activity than they were capable of before they became ill. The illness results in a substantial reduction in work-related, personal, social, and educational activities.
  
The fatigue of CFS is accompanied by characteristic illness symptoms lasting at least 6 months. These symptoms include:
  
   - increased malaise (extreme exhaustion and sickness) following physical activity or mental exertion
   - problems with sleep
   - difficulties with memory and concentration
   - persistent muscle pain
   - joint pain (without redness or swelling)
   - headache
   - tender lymph nodes in the neck or armpit
   - sore throat
  
  Other Symptoms
  
The symptoms listed above are the symptoms used to diagnose CFS. However, many CFS patients and patients in general may experience other symptoms, including:
  
   - brain fog (feeling like you're in a mental fog)
   - difficulty maintaining an upright position, dizziness, balance problems or fainting
   - allergies or sensitivities to foods, odors, chemicals, medications, or noise
   - irritable bowel
   - chills and night sweats
   - visual disturbances (sensitivity to light, blurring, eye pain)
   - depression or mood problems (irritability, mood swings, anxiety, panic attacks)
  
  
It's important to tell your health care professional if you're experiencing any of these symptoms. You might have CFS, or you might have another treatable disorder. Only a health care professional can diagnose CFS.
  What's the Clinical Course of CFS?
  
The severity of CFS varies from patient to patient. Some people can maintain fairly active lives. For most patients, however, CFS significantly limits their work, school, and family activities for periods of time.
  
While symptoms vary from person to person in number, type, and severity, all CFS patients are limited in what they can do to some degree. CDC studies show that CFS can be as disabling as multiple sclerosis, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, heart disease, end-stage renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and similar chronic conditions.
  
CFS often affects patients in cycles: Patients will have periods of illness followed by periods of relative well-being. For some patients, symptoms may diminish or even go into complete remission; however, they often recur at a later point in time. This pattern of remission and relapse makes CFS especially hard for patients to manage. Patients who are in remission may be tempted to overdo activities when they're feeling better, but this overexertion may actually contribute to a relapse.
  
The percentage of CFS patients who recover is unknown, but there is some evidence to indicate that patients benefit when accompanying conditions are identified and treated and when symptoms are managed. High-quality health care is important."
670,Who is at risk for Gout? ?,"Renal insufficiency, or the inability of the kidneys to eliminate waste products, is a common cause of gout in older people. Here are other medical problems that contribute to high blood levels of uric acid and can put people at risk for gout. - high blood pressure  - hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland)  - conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers  - Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities.  high blood pressure hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid gland) conditions that cause an excessively rapid turnover of cells, such as psoriasis, hemolytic anemia, or some cancers Kelley-Seegmiller syndrome or Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, two rare conditions in which the enzyme that helps control uric acid levels either is not present or is found in insufficient quantities."
671,What are the symptoms of Glycogen storage disease type 6 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Glycogen storage disease type 6? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glycogen storage disease type 6. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hypoglycemia 90% Short stature 90% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hepatomegaly - Increased hepatic glycogen content - Postnatal growth retardation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
672,Is paroxysmal extreme pain disorder inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
673,What are the symptoms of Robinow syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Robinow syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Robinow syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Short stature 97% Anteverted nares 95% Short nose 95% Abnormality of dental morphology 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Dental malocclusion 90% Downturned corners of mouth 90% Hypertelorism 90% Hypoplasia of penis 90% Malar flattening 90% Micromelia 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% Wide mouth 90% Small hand 84% Depressed nasal bridge 78% Bifid tongue 59% Long eyelashes 59% High palate 52% Abnormality of female external genitalia 50% Abnormality of the eyelashes 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Abnormality of thumb phalanx 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Elbow dislocation 50% Epicanthus 50% Frontal bossing 50% Gingival overgrowth 50% Hearing impairment 50% Kyphosis 50% Long palpebral fissure 50% Long philtrum 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Macrocephaly 50% Otitis media 50% Pectus excavatum 50% Preaxial foot polydactyly 50% Proptosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Tented upper lip vermilion 50% Umbilical hernia 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Narrow palate 46% Low-set ears 45% Retrognathia 44% Nail dysplasia 35% Oral cleft 35% Rhizomelia 35% Short neck 31% Abnormality of the aorta 7.5% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Abnormality of the pulmonary valve 7.5% Abnormality of the tricuspid valve 7.5% Alopecia 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Blue sclerae 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Ectopic anus 7.5% Exaggerated cupid's bow 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Increased number of teeth 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Pectus carinatum 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Reduced number of teeth 7.5% Sacral dimple 7.5% Sandal gap 7.5% Short philtrum 7.5% Single transverse palmar crease 7.5% Split hand 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Synostosis of carpal bones 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Absent uvula - Aplasia/Hypoplasia involving the metacarpal bones - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bifid distal phalanx of toe - Broad thumb - Broad toe - Clinodactyly - Clitoral hypoplasia - Delayed cranial suture closure - Delayed eruption of permanent teeth - Delayed eruption of teeth - Delayed skeletal maturation - Dental crowding - Duplication of the distal phalanx of hand - Flat face - Hydronephrosis - Hypoplasia of midface - Hypoplastic labia majora - Hypoplastic sacrum - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - Macroglossia - Mesomelia - Micropenis - Missing ribs - Nevus flammeus - Posteriorly rotated ears - Radial deviation of finger - Renal duplication - Rib fusion - Right ventricular outlet obstruction - Short hard palate - Short middle phalanx of the 5th finger - Short palm - Thoracic hemivertebrae - Thoracolumbar scoliosis - Triangular mouth - Vertebral fusion - Wide anterior fontanel - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
674,What are the treatments for Giant Axonal Neuropathy ?,"Treatment is symptomatic. Children with GAN and their families usually work with a medical team that includes a pediatric neurologist, orthopedic surgeon, physiotherapist, psychologist, and speech and occupational therapists. The major goals of treatment are to maximize intellectual and physical development and minimize their deterioration as time passes. Many children with GAN begin with normal intellectual development and are able to attend a regular school program. Children should be monitored at least once a year to assess their intellectual abilities and to look for the presence of neurological deterioration."
675,What are the symptoms of SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Distal renal tubular acidosis - Failure to thrive - Hypocalcemia - Metabolic acidosis - Nephrocalcinosis - Osteomalacia - Pathologic fracture - Periodic hypokalemic paresis - Periodic paralysis - Postnatal growth retardation - Renal tubular acidosis - Rickets - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
676,What are the genetic changes related to X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita ?,"Mutations in the NR0B1 gene cause X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita. The NR0B1 gene provides instructions to make a protein called DAX1. This protein plays an important role in the development and function of several hormone-producing (endocrine) tissues including the adrenal glands, two hormone-secreting glands in the brain (the hypothalamus and pituitary), and the gonads (ovaries in females and testes in males). The hormones produced by these glands control many important body functions.  Some NR0B1 mutations result in the production of an inactive version of the DAX1 protein, while other mutations delete the entire gene. The resulting shortage of DAX1 disrupts the normal development and function of hormone-producing tissues in the body. The signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency and hypogonadotropic hypogonadism occur when endocrine glands do not produce the right amounts of certain hormones."
677,How to diagnose Heart Attack ?,"Your doctor will diagnose a heart attack based on your signs and symptoms, your medical and family histories, and test results.
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple, painless test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through each part of the heart.
                
An EKG can show signs of heart damage due to coronary heart disease (CHD) and signs of a previous or current heart attack.
                
Blood Tests
                
During a heart attack, heart muscle cells die and release proteins into the bloodstream. Blood tests can measure the amount of these proteins in the bloodstream. Higher than normal levels of these proteins suggest a heart attack.
                
Commonly used blood tests include troponin tests, CK or CKMB tests, and serum myoglobin tests. Blood tests often are repeated to check for changes over time.
                
Coronary Angiography
                
Coronary angiography (an-jee-OG-ra-fee) is a test that uses dye and special x rays to show the insides of your coronary arteries. This test often is done during a heart attack to help find blockages in the coronary arteries.
                
To get the dye into your coronary arteries, your doctor will use a procedure called cardiac catheterization (KATH-e-ter-ih-ZA-shun).
                
A thin, flexible tube called a catheter is put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck. The tube is threaded into your coronary arteries, and the dye is released into your bloodstream.
                
Special x rays are taken while the dye is flowing through the coronary arteries. The dye lets your doctor study the flow of blood through the heart and blood vessels.
                
If your doctor finds a blockage, he or she may recommend a procedure calledpercutaneous (per-ku-TA-ne-us) coronary intervention (PCI), sometimes referred to ascoronary angioplasty(AN-jee-oh-plas-tee). This procedure can help restore blood flow through a blocked artery. Sometimes a small mesh tube called a stent is placed in the artery to help prevent blockages after the procedure."
678,What are the symptoms of Ollier disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ollier disease? Clinical manifestations in Ollier disease often appear in the first decade of life and usually start with the appearance of palpable bony masses on a finger or a toe, an asymetric shortening of an extremity with limping, and skeletal deformities which may be associated with pathologic fractures. Enchondromas frequently affect the long tubular bones, particularly the tibia, the femur, and/or the fibula; flat bones, especially the pelvis, can also be affected. The lesions may affect multiple bones and are usually asymetrically distributed, exclusively or predominantly affecting one side of the body. Affected bones are often shortened and deformed. Indeed, bone shortening may be the only clinical sign of the disease. These bone shortenings are often associated with bone bending and curving, and may lead to limitations in articular movement. Forearm deformities are frequently encountered. In childhood, the lesions are subjected to pathologic fractures. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ollier disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Cavernous hemangioma 90% Micromelia 90% Osteolysis 90% Visceral angiomatosis 90% Bone pain 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Abnormality of coagulation 7.5% Anemia 7.5% Lymphangioma 7.5% Ovarian neoplasm 7.5% Platyspondyly 7.5% Precocious puberty 7.5% Skin ulcer 7.5% Thrombophlebitis 7.5% Chondrosarcoma - Multiple enchondromatosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
679,What are the treatments for Tarlov Cysts ?,"Tarlov cysts may be drained and shunted to relieve pressure and pain, but relief is often only temporary and fluid build-up in the cysts will recur. Corticosteroid injections may also temporarily relieve pain. Other drugs may be prescribed to treat chronic pain and depression. Injecting the cysts with fibrin glue (a combination of naturally occurring substances based on the clotting factor in blood) may provide temporary relief of pain. Some scientists believe the herpes simplex virus, which thrives in an alkaline environment, can cause Tarlov cysts to become symptomatic. Making the body less alkaline, through diet or supplements, may lessen symptoms. Microsurgical removal of the cyst may be an option in select individuals who do not respond to conservative treatments and who continue to experience pain or progressive neurological damage."
680,"What are the symptoms of Follicle-stimulating hormone deficiency, isolated ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Follicle-stimulating hormone deficiency, isolated? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Follicle-stimulating hormone deficiency, isolated. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Decreased muscle mass 5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased testicular size - Delayed skeletal maturation - Infertility - Primary amenorrhea - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
681,What is (are) Axial spondylometaphyseal dysplasia ?,"Axial spondylometaphyseal dysplasia is a genetic disorder of bone growth. The term axial means towards the center of the body. Sphondylos is a Greek term meaning vertebra. Metaphyseal dysplasia refers to abnormalities at the ends of long bones. Axial spondylometaphyseal dysplasia primarily affects the bones of the chest, pelvis, spine, upper arms and upper legs, and results in shortened stature. For reasons not well understood, this rare skeletal dysplasia is also associated with early and progressive vision loss. The underlying genetic cause of axial spondylometaphyseal dysplasia is currently unknown. It is thought to be inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion."
682,What are the genetic changes related to MEGDEL syndrome ?,"MEGDEL syndrome is caused by mutations in the SERAC1 gene. The function of the protein produced from this gene is not completely understood, although research suggests that it is involved in altering (remodeling) certain fats called phospholipids, particularly a phospholipid known as phosphatidylglycerol. Another phospholipid called cardiolipin is made from phosphatidylglycerol. Cardiolipin is a component of the membrane that surrounds cellular structures called mitochondria, which convert the energy from food into a form that cells can use, and is important for the proper functioning of these structures.  SERAC1 gene mutations involved in MEGDEL syndrome lead to little or no SERAC1 protein function. As a result, phosphatidylglycerol remodeling is impaired, which likely alters the composition of cardiolipin. Researchers speculate that the abnormal cardiolipin affects mitochondrial function, reducing cellular energy production and leading to the neurological and hearing problems characteristic of MEGDEL syndrome. It is unclear how SERAC1 gene mutations lead to abnormal release of 3-methylglutaconic acid in the urine, although it is thought to be related to mitochondrial dysfunction."
683,What is (are) Spinocerebellar ataxia 3 ?,"Spinocerebellar ataxia 3 is a rare movement disorder that is characterized by ataxia, clumsiness and weakness in the arms and legs, spasticity, a staggering lurching walk easily mistaken for drunkenness, difficulty with speech and swallowing, and involuntary eye movements sometimes accompanied by double vision, and bulging eyes. Some patients have dystonia or symptoms similar to those of Parkinson's disease. Others have twitching of the face or tongue, neuropathy, or problems with urination and the autonomic nervous system. Symptoms can begin any time between childhood and about 70 years of age. Spinocerebellar ataxia 3 is a progressive disease, meaning that symptoms get worse with time. Life expectancy ranges from the mid-thirties for those with severe forms of the disorder to a normal life expectancy for those with mild forms. Spinocerebellar ataxia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern and is caused by a trinucleotide repeat expansion in the ataxin-3 gene (ATXN3)."
684,How many people are affected by hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy ?,"The prevalence of hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy is unknown. The Dutch type is the most common, with over 200 affected individuals reported in the scientific literature."
685,How many people are affected by Winchester syndrome ?,Winchester syndrome is a rare condition whose prevalence is unknown. It has been reported in only a few individuals worldwide.
686,What are the treatments for trimethylaminuria ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of trimethylaminuria:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Primary Trimethylaminuria  - Genetic Testing Registry: Trimethylaminuria  - Monell Chemical Senses Center: TMAU & Body Malodors  - National Human Genome Research Institute: Diagnosis and Treatment of Trimethylaminuria   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
687,What are the symptoms of Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your nervous system healthy ?,"Nerve damage symptoms depend on which nerves have damage. Some people have no symptoms or mild symptoms. Other people have painful and long-lasting symptoms. As most nerve damage develops over many years, a person may not notice mild cases for a long time. In some people, the onset of pain may be sudden and severe."
688,What causes Hemangiopericytoma ?,"What causes hemangiopericytoma? The cause of the disease is unknown, and no strong clinical data exist to indicate a convincing link to specific causes. Some reports suggest a relationship between hemangiopericytoma and occupational vinyl chloride exposure, as well as exposure to herbicides."
689,What are the symptoms of Heart Disease in Women ?,"The signs and symptoms ofcoronary heart disease(CHD) may differ between women and men. Some women who have CHD have no signs or symptoms. This is called silent CHD.
                
Silent CHD may not be diagnosed until a woman has signs and symptoms of aheart attack, heart failure, or an arrhythmia(irregular heartbeat).
                
Other women who have CHD will have signs and symptoms of the disease.
                
Heart Disease Signs and Symptoms
                

                
A common symptom of CHD isangina.Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs when your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood.
                
In men, angina often feels like pressure or squeezing in the chest. This feeling may extend to the arms. Women can also have these angina symptoms. But women also tend to describe a sharp, burning chest pain. Women are more likely to have pain in the neck, jaw, throat, abdomen, or back.
                
In men, angina tends to worsen with physical activity and go away with rest. Women are more likely than men to have angina while they're resting or sleeping.
                
In women who havecoronary microvascular disease, angina often occurs during routine daily activities, such as shopping or cooking, rather than while exercising. Mental stress also is more likely to trigger angina pain in women than in men.
                
The severity of angina varies. The pain may get worse or occur more often as the buildup of plaque continues to narrow the coronary (heart) arteries.
                
Signs and Symptoms Coronary Heart Disease Complications
                
Heart Attack
                
The most common heart attack symptom in men and women is chest pain or discomfort. However, only half of women who have heart attacks have chest pain.
                
Women are more likely than men to report back or neck pain, indigestion, heartburn, nausea (feeling sick to the stomach), vomiting, extreme fatigue (tiredness), or problems breathing.
                
Heart attacks also can cause upper body discomfort in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw, or upper part of the stomach. Other heart attack symptoms are light-headedness and dizziness, which occur more often in women than men.
                
Men are more likely than women to break out in a cold sweat and to report pain in the left arm during a heart attack.
                
Heart Failure
                
Heart failure is a condition in which your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs. Heart failure doesn't mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. It means that your heart can't cope with the demands of everyday activities.
                
Heart failure causes shortness of breath and fatigue that tends to increase with physical exertion. Heart failure also can cause swelling in the feet, ankles, legs, abdomen, and veins in the neck.
                
Arrhythmia
                
An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm.
                
Some people describe arrhythmias as fluttering or thumping feelings or skipped beats in their chests. These feelings are calledpalpitations.
                
Some arrhythmias can cause your heart to suddenly stop beating. This condition is calledsudden cardiac arrest(SCA). SCA causes loss of consciousness and death if it's not treated right away.
                
Signs and Symptoms of Broken Heart Syndrome
                
The most common signs and symptoms of broken heart syndrome are chest pain and shortness of breath. In this disorder, these symptoms tend to occur suddenly in people who have no history of heart disease.
                
Arrhythmias orcardiogenic shockalso may occur. Cardiogenic shock is a condition in which a suddenly weakened heart isn't able to pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
                
Some of the signs and symptoms of broken heart syndrome differ from those of heart attack. For example, in people who have broken heart syndrome:
                
Symptoms occur suddenly after having extreme emotional or physical stress.
                
EKG (electrocardiogram) results don't look the same as the EKG results for a person having a heart attack. (An EKG is a test that records the heart's electrical activity.)
                
Blood tests show no signs or mild signs of heart damage.
                
Tests show no signs of blockages in the coronary arteries.
                
Tests show ballooning and unusual movement of the lower left heart chamber (left ventricle).
                
Recovery time is quick, usually within days or weeks (compared with the recovery time of a month or more for a heart attack)."
690,What are the treatments for Mitochondrial Myopathy ?,"Although there is no specific treatment for any of the mitochondrial myopathies, physical therapy may extend the range of movement of muscles and improve dexterity. Vitamin therapies such as riboflavin, coenzyme Q, and carnitine (a specialized amino acid) may provide subjective improvement in fatigue and energy levels in some patients."
691,What is the outlook for Craniosynostosis ?,The prognosis for craniosynostosis varies depending on whether single or multiple cranial sutures are involved or other abnormalities are present. The prognosis is better for those with single suture involvement and no associated abnormalities.
692,Do you have information about Mercury,"Summary : Mercury is an element that is found in air, water and soil. It has several forms. Metallic mercury is a shiny, silver-white, odorless liquid. If heated, it is a colorless, odorless gas. It also combines with other elements to form powders or crystals. Mercury is in many products. Metallic mercury is used in glass thermometers, silver dental fillings, and button batteries. Mercury salts may be used in skin creams and ointments. It's also used in many industries.     Mercury in the air settles into water. It can pass through the food chain and build up in fish, shellfish, and animals that eat fish. The nervous system is sensitive to all forms of mercury. Exposure to high levels can damage the brain and kidneys. Pregnant women can pass the mercury in their bodies to their babies.    It is important to protect your family from mercury exposure:       - Carefully handle and dispose of products that contain mercury    - Limit your consumption of fish with higher levels of mercury       Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry"
693,What are the treatments for Ohtahara Syndrome ?,"Antiepileptic drugs are used to control seizures, but are unfortunately not usually very effective for this disorder. Corticosteroids are occasionally helpful. In cases where there is a focal brain lesion (damage contained to one area of the brain) surgery may be beneficial. Other therapies are symptomatic and supportive."
694,What are the treatments for hypomyelination and congenital cataract ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hypomyelination and congenital cataract:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hypomyelination and Congenital Cataract  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hypomyelination and Congenital Cataract  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Congenital Cataract  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Muscle Atrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
695,Who is at risk for Heart Failure? ?,"Preventing Heart Failure There are a number of things you can do to reduce the risk for coronary artery disease and heart failure. These things include - keeping your cholesterol levels healthy  - keeping your blood pressure at a normal level  - managing diabetes   - maintaining a healthy weight   - quitting smoking  - limiting the amount of alcohol you drink  - following a heart healthy diet  - limiting the amount of sodium (salt) you consume  - getting regular exercise   - avoiding using illegal drugs. keeping your cholesterol levels healthy keeping your blood pressure at a normal level managing diabetes maintaining a healthy weight quitting smoking limiting the amount of alcohol you drink following a heart healthy diet limiting the amount of sodium (salt) you consume getting regular exercise avoiding using illegal drugs. Keep Your Cholesterol Levels Healthy Keeping your cholesterol levels healthy can help prevent coronary artery disease. Your goal for LDL, or ""bad,"" cholesterol, depends on how many other risk factors you have. Risk factors include - being a cigarette smoker  -  having high blood pressure   -  having low HDL cholesterol  -  being 45 or older if you are a man and 55 or older if you are a woman  -  having a close relative who had coronary artery disease at an earlier-than-usual age (before age 55 for male relatives and before age 65 for female relatives).  being a cigarette smoker having high blood pressure having low HDL cholesterol being 45 or older if you are a man and 55 or older if you are a woman having a close relative who had coronary artery disease at an earlier-than-usual age (before age 55 for male relatives and before age 65 for female relatives). Recommended LDL Cholesterol Goals -  If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have one or no risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 160 mg/dL.  - If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have two or more risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 130 mg/dL.  - If you do have coronary heart disease or diabetes, your LDL goal is less than 100 mg/dL.   - The goal for HDL, or ""good,"" cholesterol is above 40 in men and above 50 in women.  - The goal for triglycerides, another fat in the blood, is below 150.  If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have one or no risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 160 mg/dL. If you don't have coronary heart disease or diabetes and have two or more risk factors, your LDL goal is less than 130 mg/dL. If you do have coronary heart disease or diabetes, your LDL goal is less than 100 mg/dL. The goal for HDL, or ""good,"" cholesterol is above 40 in men and above 50 in women. The goal for triglycerides, another fat in the blood, is below 150. Learn how to control your cholesterol with TLC -- Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes.  Keep Blood Pressure at a Normal Level High blood pressure causes the heart to get larger and work harder, which can then lead to heart failure. You should aim for a blood pressure level of 130/80 or below. Talk to your doctor about ways to lower your blood pressure.  Get tips on how to control your blood pressure.  Manage Diabetes If you have diabetes, its important to manage it properly. Diabetes is characterized by having too much glucose, or sugar, in the blood for a long time. This can cause heart problems because high blood glucose can damage parts of the body such as the heart and blood vessels. This damage weakens the heart, often leading to heart failure. See ways to manage your diabetes every day.  Maintain a Healthy Weight Excess weight puts strain on the heart. Being overweight also increases your risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. These diseases can lead to heart failure.  See a sensible approach to weight loss.  Don't Smoke If you smoke, quit. For free help quitting, call a smoking quit line.  See medications to help you quit.  Follow a Heart Healthy Diet Heart-healthy foods include those high in fiber, such as oat bran, oatmeal, whole-grain breads and cereals, fruits, and vegetables. You can also maintain a heart-healthy diet by limiting foods that are high in saturated fat, trans-fat, and cholesterol, such as meats, butter, dairy products with fat, eggs, shortening, lard, and foods with palm oil or coconut oil. For more on healthy eating, see Eating Well As You Get Older. Limit the Amount of Alcohol You Drink In general, healthy men and women over age 65 should not drink more than three drinks a day or a total of seven drinks a week. Learn how alcohol affects you as get older.  Limit the Amount of Sodium Sodium contributes to high blood pressure and fluid retention. Older adults should limit their intake of sodium to1,500 milligrams daily (about 2/3 tsp. of salt).  See ways to cut back on your salt intake.  Get Regular Exericse Studies show that people with heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure benefit from regular exercise. In fact, inactive people are nearly twice as likely to develop heart disease as those who are more active. Aim for at least 30 minutes a day of exercise. Check with your doctor before starting any exercise program. For information on exercise and older adults, see  Benefits of Exercise or visit Go4Life, the exercise and physical activity campaign for older adults from the National Institute on Aging."
696,How many people are affected by genitopatellar syndrome ?,Genitopatellar syndrome is estimated to occur in fewer than 1 per million people. At least 18 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
697,What is (are) craniofacial microsomia ?,"Craniofacial microsomia is a term used to describe a spectrum of abnormalities that primarily affect the development of the skull (cranium) and face before birth. Microsomia means abnormal smallness of body structures. Most people with craniofacial microsomia have differences in the size and shape of facial structures between the right and left sides of the face (facial asymmetry). In about two-thirds of cases, both sides of the face have abnormalities, which usually differ from one side to the other. Other individuals with craniofacial microsomia are affected on only one side of the face. The facial characteristics in craniofacial microsomia typically include underdevelopment of one side of the upper or lower jaw (maxillary or mandibular hypoplasia), which can cause dental problems and difficulties with feeding and speech. In cases of severe mandibular hypoplasia, breathing may also be affected.  People with craniofacial microsomia usually have ear abnormalities affecting one or both ears, typically to different degrees. They may have growths of skin (skin tags) in front of the ear (preauricular tags), an underdeveloped or absent external ear (microtia or anotia), or a closed or absent ear canal; these abnormalities may lead to hearing loss. Eye problems are less common in craniofacial microsomia, but some affected individuals have an unusually small eyeball (microphthalmia) or other eye abnormalities that result in vision loss.  Abnormalities in other parts of the body, such as malformed bones of the spine (vertebrae), abnormally shaped kidneys, and heart defects, may also occur in people with craniofacial microsomia.  Many other terms have been used for craniofacial microsomia. These other names generally refer to forms of craniofacial microsomia with specific combinations of signs and symptoms, although sometimes they are used interchangeably. Hemifacial microsomia often refers to craniofacial microsomia with maxillary or mandibular hypoplasia. People with hemifacial microsomia and noncancerous (benign) growths in the eye called epibulbar dermoids may be said to have Goldenhar syndrome or oculoauricular dysplasia."
698,What are the genetic changes related to N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency ?,"Mutations in the NAGS gene cause N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency.  N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency belongs to a class of genetic diseases called urea cycle disorders. The urea cycle is a sequence of reactions that occurs in liver cells. This cycle processes excess nitrogen, generated when protein is used by the body, to make a compound called urea that is excreted by the kidneys.  The NAGS gene provides instructions for making the enzyme N-acetylglutamate synthase, which helps produce a compound called N-acetylglutamate. This compound is needed to activate another enzyme, carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I, which controls the first step of the urea cycle.  In people with N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency, N-acetylglutamate is not available in sufficient quantities, or is not present at all. As a result, urea cannot be produced normally, and excess nitrogen accumulates in the blood in the form of ammonia. This accumulation of ammonia causes the neurological problems and other signs and symptoms of N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency."
699,How to prevent Acinetobacter in Healthcare Settings ?,"Acinetobacter can live on the skin and may survive in the environment for several days. Careful attention to infection control procedures, such as hand hygiene and environmental cleaning, can reduce the risk of transmission."
700,What causes Respiratory Failure ?,"Diseases and conditions that impair breathing can cause respiratory failure. These disorders may affect the muscles, nerves, bones, or tissues that support breathing, or they may affect the lungs directly.
                
When breathing is impaired, your lungs can't easily move oxygen into your blood and remove carbon dioxide from your blood (gas exchange). This can cause a low oxygen level or high carbon dioxide level, or both, in your blood.
                
Respiratory failure can occur as a result of:
                
Conditions that affect the nerves and muscles that control breathing. Examples include muscular dystrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinal cord injuries, and stroke.
                
Damage to the tissues and ribs around the lungs. An injury to the chest can cause this damage.
                
Problems with the spine, such as scoliosis (a curve in the spine). This condition can affect the bones and muscles used for breathing.
                
Drug or alcohol overdose. An overdose affects the area of the brain that controls breathing. During an overdose, breathing becomes slow and shallow.
                
Lung diseases and conditions, such as COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), pneumonia, ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome), pulmonary embolism, and cystic fibrosis. These diseases and conditions can affect the flow of air and blood into and out of your lungs. ARDS and pneumonia affect gas exchange in the air sacs.
                
Acute lung injuries. For example, inhaling harmful fumes or smoke can injure your lungs.
                
Normal Lungs and Conditions Causing Respiratory Failure"
701,How many people are affected by paramyotonia congenita ?,"Paramyotonia congenita is an uncommon disorder; it is estimated to affect fewer than 1 in 100,000 people."
702,What to do for Urine Blockage in Newborns ?,"- Many types of defects in the urinary tract can cause urine blockage:     - vesicoureteral reflux (VUR)    - ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction    - bladder outlet obstruction (BOO), such as posterior urethral valves (PUV)    - ureterocele    - Some babies are born with genetic conditions that affect several different systems in the body, including the urinary tract:     - prune belly syndrome (PBS)    - esophageal atresia (EA)    - congenital heart defects    - Urine blockage can also be caused by spina bifida and other birth defects that affect the spinal cord.  - Before leaving the hospital, a baby with urine blockage may urinate only small amounts or may not urinate at all. As part of the routine newborn exam, the health care provider may feel an enlarged kidney or find a closed urethra, which may indicate urine blockage. Sometimes urine blockage is not apparent until a child develops symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI).  - When a defect in the urinary tract blocks the flow of urine, the urine backs up and causes the ureters to swell, called hydroureter, and hydronephrosis.  - Defects of the urinary tract may be discovered before or after the baby is born.  - Prenatal tests include ultrasound, amniocentesis, and chorionic villus sampling (CVS).  - Different imaging techniques, including ultrasound, voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG), and radionuclide scan, can be used in infants and children to determine the cause of urine blockage.  - Treatment for urine blockage depends on the cause and severity of the blockage. Hydronephrosis discovered before the baby is born rarely requires immediate action, especially if it is only on one side. Treatments for more serious conditions include     - surgery    - antibiotics    - intermittent catheterization"
703,Is prekallikrein deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
704,How to diagnose Ehlers-Danlos syndrome ?,"How is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome diagnosed? A diagnosis of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is typically based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Depending on the subtype suspected, some of the following tests may be ordered to support the diagnosis: Collagen typing performed on a skin biopsy may aid in the diagnosis of vascular type, arthrochalasia type, and dermatosparaxis type. Collagen is a tough, fiber-like protein that makes up about a third of body protein. It is part of the structure of tendons, bones, and connective tissues. People with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome often have abnormalities of certain types of collagen. Genetic testing is available for many subtypes of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome; however, it is not an option for most families with the hypermobility type. Imaging studies such as CT scan, MRI, ultrasound, and angiography may be useful in identifying certain features of the condition. Urine tests to detect deficiencies in certain enzymes that are important for collagen formation may be helpful in diagnosing kyphoscoliosis type."
705,What is (are) X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism ?,"X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism is a movement disorder that has been found only in people of Filipino descent. This condition affects men much more often than women.  Parkinsonism is usually the first sign of X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism. Parkinsonism is a group of movement abnormalities including tremors, unusually slow movement (bradykinesia), rigidity, an inability to hold the body upright and balanced (postural instability), and a shuffling gait that can cause recurrent falls.  Later in life, many affected individuals also develop a pattern of involuntary, sustained muscle contractions known as dystonia. The dystonia associated with X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism typically starts in one area, most often the eyes, jaw, or neck, and later spreads to other parts of the body. The continuous muscle cramping and spasms can be disabling. Depending on which muscles are affected, widespread (generalized) dystonia can cause difficulty with speaking, swallowing, coordination, and walking.  The signs and symptoms of X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism vary widely. In the mildest cases, affected individuals have slowly progressive parkinsonism with little or no dystonia. More severe cases involve dystonia that rapidly becomes generalized. These individuals become dependent on others for care within a few years after signs and symptoms appear, and they may die prematurely from breathing difficulties, infections (such as aspiration pneumonia), or other complications."
706,What are the treatments for Hidradenocarcinoma ?,"How might hidradenocarcinoma be treated? Because hidradenocarcinoma is quite rare, there are no established guidelines for treatment.  Treatment is determined by the size and location of each particular cancer and the extent to which cancer cells may have spread to nearby lymph nodes or tissues.  Surgery is often the first step and aims to remove as much of the cancer as possible.  Both a traditional surgical technique, known as wide local excision, and the newer Mohs micrographic surgery have been used to remove hidradenocarcinomas.  Radiation therapy, performed by a doctor known as radiation oncologist, has been used after surgery in patients with hidradenocarcinoma to destroy any cancer cells that may remain at the original location of the tumor or in the lymph nodes.  Chemotherapy, performed by a doctor known as a medical oncologist, has not yet been proven as effective treatment for hidradenocarcinomas."
707,What to do for Facing the Challenges of Chronic Kidney Disease in Children ?,"- Children with chronic kidney disease (CKD) may have a negative self-image and may have relationship problems with family members due to the stress of living with a chronic disease. The condition can lead to behavior problems and make participating in school and extracurricular activities more difficult.  - CKD can cause learning problems because the buildup of wastes in the body can slow down nerve and brain function. Children with CKD may have trouble concentrating and may develop language and motor skills more slowly than their peers.  - Parents and other adults can help children with CKD fit in at school, deal with low self-esteem, make friends, be physically active, and follow their treatment regimen. As children with CKD approach adulthood, they may need help with preparing to enter the workforce.  - School attendance is vital in helping children with CKD lead the best life possible.  - One way to help children feel empowered is to give them as much control and responsibility over their own care as possible:      - Children can learn more about their medications, including doses.    - Children on dialysis should be encouraged to take an active part in their treatments.    - Parents or guardians should allow children to participate in treatment decision making.    - Participating in regular classroom and extracurricular activities may help children improve their social skills. Summer camps and recreational programs for children with special needs can be a good place to make new friends.  - Parents or guardians may feel protective of children with CKD; however, they should not try to limit activities unless instructed to by a health care provider.   - Children with CKD may need to take multiple medications, eat a specific diet, and follow their health care providers orders to help control their disease. Many children have a hard time following the treatment regimen. Health care providers use the term nonadherence to describe the failure or refusal to take prescribed medications or follow a health care providers directions.  - Adherence can be improved with a combination of health education, motivational techniques, and behavioral skill methods.  - Many skilled professionals are available to ensure that children with CKD get the best possible care. The family may want to talk with a social worker, mental health professional, financial counselor, and dietitian. If a child reaches kidney failure, the medical staff at the dialysis center or transplantation clinic can provide help.  - For children with CKD, learning about nutrition is vital because their diet can affect how well their kidneys work. Parents or guardians should always consult with their childs health care team before making any dietary changes."
708,Is palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness inherited ?,"Palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness can have different inheritance patterns. When this disorder is caused by GJB2 gene mutations, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness is caused by mutations in the MT-TS1 gene, it is inherited in a mitochondrial pattern, which is also known as maternal inheritance. This pattern of inheritance applies to genes contained in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Because egg cells, but not sperm cells, contribute mitochondria to the developing embryo, children can only inherit disorders resulting from mtDNA mutations from their mother. These disorders can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females, but fathers do not pass traits associated with changes in mtDNA to their children."
709,What are the symptoms of Wolfram syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Wolfram syndrome? There are two types of Wolfram syndrome (type 1 and type 2) which have many overlapping features. Wolfram syndrome type 1, which is also known by the acronym DIDMOAD, is characterized by diabetes insipidus (DI), childhood-onset diabetes mellitus (DM), gradual loss of vision due to optic atrophy (OA), and deafness (D). About 65% of affected people will develop all four of these symptoms, while others will only have some of the associated health problems. Other signs and symptoms of Wolfram syndrome type 1 may include: Urinary tract abnormalities Ataxia (problems with coordination and balance) Loss of sense of smell Loss of gag reflex Myoclonus (muscle spasms) Peripheral neuropathy Seizures Depression Impulsive and/or aggressive behavior Psychosis Gastrointestinal problems Intellectual disability Central apnea and central respiratory failure Hypogonadism in males (reduced amounts of the sex hormone testosterone) In addition to the signs and symptoms found in Wolfram syndrome type 1, people with Wolfram syndrome type 2 may also have stomach and/or intestinal ulcers; and a tendancy to bleed excessivly after injuries.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Wolfram syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Diabetes insipidus 90% Diabetes mellitus 90% Hearing impairment 90% Optic atrophy 90% Hypoglycemia 50% Incoordination 50% Nephropathy 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Nystagmus 50% Recurrent urinary tract infections 50% Seizures 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of the autonomic nervous system 7.5% Abnormality of the gastric mucosa 7.5% Abnormality of the genital system 7.5% Anemia 7.5% Apnea 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Cerebral cortical atrophy 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Constipation 7.5% Developmental regression 7.5% Feeding difficulties in infancy 7.5% Gastric ulcer 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Glaucoma 7.5% Hallucinations 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Malabsorption 7.5% Myopathy 7.5% Ophthalmoparesis 7.5% Peripheral neuropathy 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Retinopathy 7.5% Sleep disturbance 7.5% Abnormal bleeding - Abnormality of the skeletal system - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Behavioral abnormality - Blindness - Cardiomyopathy - Cerebral atrophy - Dysarthria - Dysautonomia - Dysphagia - Growth delay - Hydronephrosis - Hydroureter - Impaired collagen-induced platelet aggregation - Intellectual disability - Limited mobility of proximal interphalangeal joint - Megaloblastic anemia - Neurogenic bladder - Neutropenia - Optic neuropathy - Pigmentary retinopathy - Ptosis - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Sideroblastic anemia - Stroke-like episodes - Testicular atrophy - Thrombocytopenia - Tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
710,What are the treatments for neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: ADH  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Diabetes Insipidus - Central   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
711,How to diagnose Brody myopathy ?,"How is Brody disease diagnosed? Brody disease is suspected in people with the characteristic symptoms of this disorder (e.g., peudomyotonia, myoglobinuria etc...). In addition, people with this disease may have normal or slightly elevated creatine kinase levels. Click here to learn more about creatine kinase testing. A careful evaluation of muscle tissue samples obtained from muscle biopsy shows type 2 A and B atrophy with angulated fibers. Also, biochemical and immunological testing of the activity of certain proteins in the cell (i.e., sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca ATPase) can also help confirm the diagnosis."
712,What is (are) mucopolysaccharidosis type III ?,"Mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III), also known as Sanfilippo syndrome, is a progressive disorder that mainly affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).  People with MPS III generally do not display any features of the condition at birth, but they begin to show signs and symptoms of the disorder during early childhood. Affected children often initially have delayed speech and behavior problems. They may become restless, destructive, anxious, or aggressive. Sleep disturbances are also very common in children with MPS III. This condition causes progressive intellectual disability and the loss of previously acquired skills (developmental regression). In later stages of the disorder, people with MPS III may develop seizures and movement disorders.  The physical features of MPS III are less pronounced than those of other types of mucopolysaccharidosis. Individuals with MPS III typically have mildly ""coarse"" facial features, a large head (macrocephaly), a slightly enlarged liver (mild hepatomegaly), and a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (umbilical hernia) or lower abdomen (inguinal hernia). Some people with MPS III have short stature, joint stiffness, or mild dysostosis multiplex, which refers to multiple skeletal abnormalities seen on x-ray. Affected individuals often develop chronic diarrhea and recurrent upper respiratory and ear infections. People with MPS III may also experience hearing loss and vision problems.  MPS III is divided into types IIIA, IIIB, IIIC, and IIID, which are distinguished by their genetic cause. The different types of MPS III have similar signs and symptoms, although the features of MPS IIIA typically appear earlier in life and progress more rapidly. People with MPS III usually live into adolescence or early adulthood."
713,What are the symptoms of Osteopoikilosis and dacryocystitis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Osteopoikilosis and dacryocystitis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteopoikilosis and dacryocystitis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Increased bone mineral density 90% Lacrimation abnormality 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Dacrocystitis - Osteopoikilosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
714,What are the treatments for Wolman disease ?,"How can I find additional comprehensive information on the treatment of Wolman disease? You can find relevant journal articles on Wolman syndrome and its treatment through a service called PubMed, a searchable database of medical literature. Information on finding an article and its title, authors, and publishing details is listed here. Some articles are available as a complete document, while information on other studies is available as a summary abstract. To obtain the full article, contact a medical/university library (or your local library for interlibrary loan), or order it online using the following link. Using ""Wolman syndrome[ti] treatment"" as your search term should locate articles. To narrow your search, click on the Limits tab under the search box and specify your criteria for locating more relevant articles. Click here to view a search. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=PubMed   The National Library of Medicine (NLM) Web site has a page for locating libraries in your area that can provide direct access to these journals (print or online). The Web page also describes how you can get these articles through interlibrary loan and Loansome Doc (an NLM document-ordering service). You can access this page at the following link http://nnlm.gov/members/. You can also contact the NLM toll-free at 888-346-3656 to locate libraries in your area."
715,What is (are) Brain Malformations ?,"Most brain malformations begin long before a baby is born. Something damages the developing nervous system or causes it to develop abnormally. Sometimes it's a genetic problem. In other cases, exposure to certain medicines, infections, or radiation during pregnancy interferes with brain development. Parts of the brain may be missing, abnormally small or large, or not fully developed.    Treatment depends upon the problem. In many cases, treatment only helps with symptoms. It may include antiseizure medicines, shunts to drain fluid from the brain, and physical therapy.    There are head malformations that do not involve the brain. Craniofacial disorders are the result of abnormal growth of soft tissue and bones in the face and head. It's common for new babies to have slightly uneven heads, but parents should watch the shape of their baby's head for possible problems.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
716,What are the treatments for juvenile Batten disease ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of juvenile Batten disease:  - Batten Disease Diagnostic and Clinical Research Center at the University of Rochester Medical Center  - Batten Disease Support and Research Association: Centers of Excellence  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Neuronal Ceroid-Lipofuscinoses  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
717,What is (are) spastic paraplegia type 15 ?,"Spastic paraplegia type 15 is part of a group of genetic disorders known as hereditary spastic paraplegias. These disorders are characterized by progressive muscle stiffness (spasticity) and the development of paralysis of the lower limbs (paraplegia). Spastic paraplegia type 15 is classified as a complex hereditary spastic paraplegia because it involves all four limbs as well as additional features, including abnormalities of the brain. In addition to the muscles and brain, spastic paraplegia type 15 affects the peripheral nervous system, which consists of nerves connecting the brain and spinal cord to muscles and sensory cells that detect sensations such as touch, pain, heat, and sound.  Spastic paraplegia type 15 usually becomes apparent in childhood or adolescence with the development of weak muscle tone (hypotonia), difficulty walking, or intellectual disability. In almost all affected individuals, the tissue connecting the left and right halves of the brain (corpus callosum) is abnormally thin and becomes thinner over time. Additionally, there is often a loss (atrophy) of nerve cells in several parts of the brain, including the cerebral cortex, which controls thinking and emotions, and the cerebellum, which coordinates movement.  People with this form of spastic paraplegia can have numbness, tingling, or pain in the arms and legs (sensory neuropathy); impairment of the nerves used for muscle movement (motor neuropathy); exaggerated reflexes (hyperreflexia) of the lower limbs; muscle wasting (amyotrophy); or reduced bladder control. Rarely, spastic paraplegia type 15 is associated with a group of movement abnormalities called parkinsonism, which includes tremors, rigidity, and unusually slow movement (bradykinesia). People with spastic paraplegia type 15 may have an eye condition called pigmentary maculopathy that often impairs vision. This condition results from the breakdown (degeneration) of tissue at the back of the eye called the macula, which is responsible for sharp central vision.  Most people with spastic paraplegia type 15 experience a decline in intellectual ability and an increase in muscle weakness and nerve abnormalities over time. As the condition progresses, many people require walking aids or wheelchair assistance in adulthood."
718,What is (are) Cephalic Disorders ?,"Cephalic disorders are congenital conditions that stem from damage to or abnormal development of the budding nervous system. Most cephalic disorders are caused by a disturbance that occurs very early in the development of the fetal nervous system. Damage to the developing nervous system is a major cause of chronic, disabling disorders, and sometimes death in infants, children, and even adults. Cephalic disorders may be influenced by hereditary or genetic conditions or by environmental exposures during pregnancy (e.g., medication taken by the mother, maternal infection, exposure to radiation). Some cephalic disorders occur when the cranial sutures (the fibrous joints that connect the bones of the skull) join prematurely. Understanding the normal development of the human nervous system may lead to a better understanding of cephalic disorders."
719,Is common variable immune deficiency inherited ?,"Most cases of CVID are sporadic and occur in people with no apparent history of the disorder in their family. These cases probably result from a complex interaction of environmental and genetic factors.  In some families, CVID is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of a gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  In very rare cases, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  When CVID is caused by mutations in the TNFRSF13B gene, it is often sporadic. When TNFRSF13B gene mutations are inherited, they can cause either autosomal dominant CVID or autosomal recessive CVID.  Not all individuals who inherit a gene mutation associated with CVID will develop the disease. In many cases, affected children have an unaffected parent who shares the same mutation. Additional genetic or environmental factors are probably needed for the disorder to occur."
720,Is 15q13.3 microdeletion inherited ?,"15q13.3 microdeletion is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the deleted region on chromosome 15 in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of intellectual disability and other characteristic features.  In about 75 percent of cases, individuals with 15q13.3 microdeletion inherit the chromosomal change from a parent. In the remaining cases, 15q13.3 microdeletion occurs in people whose parents do not carry the chromosomal change. In these individuals, the deletion occurs most often as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm) or in early fetal development."
721,Is pseudocholinesterase deficiency inherited ?,"When due to genetic causes, this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive disorder have one copy of the altered gene in each cell and are called carriers. They can pass on the gene mutation to their children, but they do not usually experience signs and symptoms of the disorder. In some cases, carriers of BCHE gene mutations take longer than usual to clear choline ester drugs from the body, but not as long as those with two copies of the altered gene in each cell."
722,What are the stages of Neuroblastoma ?,"Key Points
                    - After neuroblastoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer has spread from where it started to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for neuroblastoma:         - Stage 1     - Stage 2     - Stage 3     - Stage 4        - Treatment of neuroblastoma is based on risk groups.
                
                
                    After neuroblastoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer has spread from where it started to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out the extent or spread of cancer is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process helps determine the stage of the disease. For neuroblastoma, the stage of disease affects whether the cancer is low risk, intermediate risk, or high risk. It also affects the treatment plan. The results of some tests and procedures used to diagnose neuroblastoma may be used for staging. See the General Information section for a description of these tests and procedures.   The following tests and procedures also may be used to determine the stage:         -   Lymph node biopsy : The removal of all or part of a lymph node. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. One of the following types of biopsies may be done:                -  Excisional biopsy : The removal of an entire lymph node.      -  Incisional biopsy : The removal of part of a lymph node.      -  Core biopsy : The removal of tissue from a lymph node using a wide needle.       -  Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy : The removal of tissue or fluid from a lymph node using a thin needle.              -   X-ray of the bone: An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.    -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones with cancer and is detected by a scanner.    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if neuroblastoma spreads to the liver, the cancer cells in the liver are actually neuroblastoma cells. The disease is metastatic neuroblastoma, not liver cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for neuroblastoma:
                    Stage 1    In stage 1, the tumor is in only one area and all of the tumor that can be seen is completely removed during surgery.       Stage 2     Stage 2 is divided into stages 2A and 2B.            -  Stage 2A: The tumor is in only one area and all of the tumor that can be seen cannot be completely removed during surgery.     -  Stage 2B: The tumor is in only one area and all of the tumor that can be seen may be completely removed during surgery. Cancer cells are found in the lymph nodes near the tumor.              Stage 3    In stage 3, one of the following is true:            - the tumor cannot be completely removed during surgery and has spread from one side of the body to the other side and may also have spread to nearby lymph nodes; or     - the tumor is in only one area, on one side of the body, but has spread to lymph nodes on the other side of the body; or     - the tumor is in the middle of the body and has spread to tissues or lymph nodes on both sides of the body, and the tumor cannot be removed by surgery.              Stage 4     Stage 4 is divided into stages 4 and 4S.            - In stage 4, the tumor has spread to distant lymph nodes or other parts of the body.     - In stage 4S:                   - the child is younger than 12 months; and       - the cancer has spread to the skin, liver, and/or bone marrow; and       - the tumor is in only one area and all of the tumor that can be seen may be completely removed during surgery; and/or       - cancer cells may be found in the lymph nodes near the tumor.
                
                
                    Treatment of neuroblastoma is based on risk groups.
                    For many types of cancer, stages are used to plan treatment. For neuroblastoma, treatment depends on risk groups. The stage of neuroblastoma is one factor used to determine risk group. Other factors are the age of the child, tumor histology, and tumor biology.   There are three risk groups: low risk, intermediate risk, and high risk.         - Low-risk and intermediate-risk neuroblastoma have a good chance of being cured.    - High-risk neuroblastoma may be hard to cure."
723,What are the symptoms of Transient bullous dermolysis of the newborn ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Transient bullous dermolysis of the newborn? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Transient bullous dermolysis of the newborn. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal blistering of the skin 90% Cheilitis 50% Hypopigmented skin patches 50% Thin skin 50% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Atrophic scars - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital onset - Fragile skin - Milia - Nail dystrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
724,What are the treatments for Erb-Duchenne and Dejerine-Klumpke Palsies ?,"Some brachial plexus injuries may heal without treatment. Many children who are injured during birth improve or recover by 3 to 4 months of age. Treatment for brachial plexus injuries includes physical therapy and, in some cases, surgery."
725,How to diagnose Cardiogenic Shock ?,"The first step in diagnosing cardiogenic shock is to identify that a person is in shock. At that point, emergency treatment should begin.
                
Once emergency treatment starts, doctors can look for the specific cause of the shock. If the reason for the shock is that the heart isn't pumping strongly enough, then the diagnosis is cardiogenic shock.
                
Tests and Procedures To Diagnose Shock and Its Underlying Causes
                
Blood Pressure Test
                
Medical personnel can use a simple blood pressure cuff and stethoscope to check whether a person has very low blood pressure. This is the most common sign of shock. A blood pressure test can be done before the person goes to a hospital.
                
Less serious conditions also can cause low blood pressure, such as fainting or taking certain medicines, such as those used to treat high blood pressure.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast the heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular).
                
An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through each part of the heart. Doctors use EKGs to diagnose severe heart attacks and monitor the heart's condition.
                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography (echo) uses sound waves to create a moving picture of the heart. The test provides information about the size and shape of the heart and how well the heart chambers and valves are working.
                
Echo also can identify areas of poor blood flow to the heart, areas of heart muscle that aren't contracting normally, and previous injury to the heart muscle caused by poor blood flow.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x ray takes pictures of organs and structures in the chest, including the heart, lungs, and blood vessels. This test shows whether the heart is enlarged or whether fluid is present in the lungs. These can be signs of cardiogenic shock.
                
Cardiac Enzyme Test
                
When cells in the heart die, they release enzymes into the blood. These enzymes are called markers or biomarkers. Measuring these markers can show whether the heart is damaged and the extent of the damage.
                
Coronary Angiography
                
Coronary angiography (an-jee-OG-ra-fee) is an x-ray exam of the heart and blood vessels. The doctor passes a catheter (a thin, flexible tube) through an artery in the leg or arm to the heart. The catheter can measure the pressure inside the heart chambers.
                
Dye that can be seen on an x-ray image is injected into the bloodstream through the tip of the catheter. The dye lets the doctor study the flow of blood through the heart and blood vessels and see any blockages.
                
Pulmonary Artery Catheterization
                
For this procedure, a catheter is inserted into a vein in the arm or neck or near the collarbone. Then, the catheter is moved into the pulmonary artery. This artery connects the right side of the heart to the lungs.
                
The catheter is used to check blood pressure in the pulmonary artery. If the blood pressure is too high or too low, treatment may be needed.
                
Blood Tests
                
Some blood tests also are used to help diagnose cardiogenic shock, including:
                
Arterial blood gas measurement. For this test, a blood sample is taken from an artery. The sample is used to measure oxygen, carbon dioxide, and pH (acidity) levels in the blood. Certain levels of these substances are associated with shock.
                
Tests that measure the function of various organs, such as the kidneys and liver. If these organs aren't working well, they may not be getting enough oxygen-rich blood. This could be a sign of cardiogenic shock."
726,"What is (are) Usher syndrome, type 1B ?","Usher syndrome is a genetic condition characterized by hearing loss or deafness, and progressive vision loss due to retinitis pigmentosa. Three major types of Usher syndrome have been described - types I, II, and III.  The different types are distinguished by their severity and the age when signs and symptoms appear. All three types are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner, which means both copies of the disease-causing gene in each cell have mutations."
727,How to prevent Metabolic Syndrome ?,"Making heart-healthy lifestyle choices is the best way to prevent metabolic syndrome by:
                
Being physically active
                
Following a heart-healthy eating plan
                
Knowing your weight, waist measurement, and body mass index
                
Maintaining a healthy weight
                
Make sure to schedule routine doctor visits to keep track of your cholesterol, blood pressure, and blood sugar levels. Speak with your doctor about a blood test called a lipoprotein panel, which shows your levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and triglycerides."
728,Do you have information about Dietary Supplements,"Summary : Dietary supplements are vitamins, minerals, herbs, and many other products. They can come as pills, capsules, powders, drinks, and energy bars. Supplements do not have to go through the testing that drugs do.    Some supplements can play an important role in health. For example, calcium and vitamin D are important for keeping bones strong. Pregnant women can take the vitamin folic acid to prevent certain birth defects in their babies.    To take a supplement as safely as possible       - Tell your health care provider about any dietary supplements you use    - Do not take a bigger dose than the label recommends    - Check with your health care provider about the supplements you take if you are going to have any type of surgery    - Read trustworthy information about the supplement       NIH: National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements"
729,What are the symptoms of Carney complex ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Carney complex? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Carney complex. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal pigmentation of the oral mucosa 90% Growth hormone excess 90% Gynecomastia 90% Hypercortisolism 90% Melanocytic nevus 90% Neoplasm of the adrenal gland 90% Neoplasm of the heart 90% Neoplasm of the skin 90% Neoplasm of the thyroid gland 90% Testicular neoplasm 90% Abnormality of adipose tissue 50% Abnormality of temperature regulation 50% Arthralgia 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Broad foot 50% Cerebral ischemia 50% Coarse facial features 50% Congestive heart failure 50% Hypertension 50% Hypertrichosis 50% Joint swelling 50% Kyphosis 50% Large hands 50% Neoplasm of the breast 50% Osteoarthritis 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Round face 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Thin skin 50% Truncal obesity 50% Type II diabetes mellitus 50% Anemia 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Mitral stenosis 7.5% Neoplasm of the nervous system 7.5% Ovarian neoplasm 7.5% Precocious puberty 7.5% Striae distensae 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% Tall stature 7.5% Weight loss 7.5% Abnormality of the eye - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Freckling - Hirsutism - Myxoid subcutaneous tumors - Nevus - Pheochromocytoma - Pituitary adenoma - Profuse pigmented skin lesions - Red hair - Schwannoma - Thyroid carcinoma - Thyroid follicular hyperplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
730,What is (are) congenital hypothyroidism ?,"Congenital hypothyroidism is a partial or complete loss of function of the thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) that affects infants from birth (congenital). The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped tissue in the lower neck. It makes iodine-containing hormones that play an important role in regulating growth, brain development, and the rate of chemical reactions in the body (metabolism). People with congenital hypothyroidism have lower-than-normal levels of these important hormones.  Congenital hypothyroidism occurs when the thyroid gland fails to develop or function properly. In 80 to 85 percent of cases, the thyroid gland is absent, severely reduced in size (hypoplastic), or abnormally located. These cases are classified as thyroid dysgenesis. In the remainder of cases, a normal-sized or enlarged thyroid gland (goiter) is present, but production of thyroid hormones is decreased or absent. Most of these cases occur when one of several steps in the hormone synthesis process is impaired; these cases are classified as thyroid dyshormonogenesis. Less commonly, reduction or absence of thyroid hormone production is caused by impaired stimulation of the production process (which is normally done by a structure at the base of the brain called the pituitary gland), even though the process itself is unimpaired. These cases are classified as central (or pituitary) hypothyroidism.  Signs and symptoms of congenital hypothyroidism result from the shortage of thyroid hormones. Affected babies may show no features of the condition, although some babies with congenital hypothyroidism are less active and sleep more than normal. They may have difficulty feeding and experience constipation. If untreated, congenital hypothyroidism can lead to intellectual disability and slow growth. In the United States and many other countries, all hospitals test newborns for congenital hypothyroidism. If treatment begins in the first two weeks after birth, infants usually develop normally.  Congenital hypothyroidism can also occur as part of syndromes that affect other organs and tissues in the body. These forms of the condition are described as syndromic. Some common forms of syndromic hypothyroidism include Pendred syndrome, Bamforth-Lazarus syndrome, and brain-lung-thyroid syndrome."
731,Is Paget disease of bone inherited ?,"In 15 to 40 percent of all cases of classic Paget disease of bone, the disorder has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that having one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In the remaining cases, the inheritance pattern of classic Paget disease of bone is unclear. Many affected people have no family history of the disease, although it sometimes clusters in families. Studies suggest that close relatives of people with classic Paget disease of bone are 7 to 10 times more likely to develop the disease than people without an affected relative.  Early-onset Paget disease of bone is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. In people with this form of the disorder, having one altered copy of the TNFRSF11A gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disease."
732,What causes Insomnia ?,"Secondary Insomnia
                
Secondary insomnia is the symptom or side effect of another problem. This type of insomnia often is a symptom of an emotional, neurological, or other medical or sleep disorder.
                
Emotional disorders that can cause insomnia include depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress disorder. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are examples of neurological disorders that can cause insomnia.
                
Many other disorders or factors also can cause insomnia, such as:
                
Conditions that cause chronic (ongoing) pain, such as arthritis and headache disorders
                
Conditions that make it hard to breathe, such as asthma and heart failure
                
An overactive thyroid
                
Gastrointestinal disorders, such as heartburn
                
Stroke
                
Sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome and sleep-related breathing problems
                
Menopause and hot flashes
                
Secondary insomnia also can be a side effect of some medicines. For example, certain asthma medicines, such as theophylline, and some allergy and cold medicines can cause insomnia. Beta blockers also can cause the condition. These medicines are used to treat heart conditions.
                
Commonly used substances also can cause insomnia. Examples include caffeine and other stimulants, tobacco and other nicotine products, and alcohol and other sedatives.
                
Primary Insomnia
                
Primary insomnia isn't a symptom or side effect of another medical condition. It is its own distinct disorder, and its cause isnt well understood. Primary insomnia usually lasts for at least 1 month.
                
Many life changes can trigger primary insomnia. It may be due to major or long-lasting stress or emotional upset. Travel or other factors, such as work schedules that disrupt your sleep routine, also may trigger primary insomnia.
                
Even if these issues are resolved, the insomnia may not go away. Trouble sleeping can persist because of habits formed to deal with the lack of sleep. These habits might include taking naps, worrying about sleep, and going to bed early.
                
Researchers continue to try to find out whether some people are born with an increased risk for primary insomnia."
733,What is (are) Blau syndrome ?,"Blau syndrome is an inflammatory disorder that primarily affects the skin, joints, and eyes. Signs and symptoms begin in childhood, usually before age 4.  A form of skin inflammation called granulomatous dermatitis is typically the earliest sign of Blau syndrome. This skin condition causes a persistent rash that can be scaly or involve hard lumps (nodules) that can be felt under the skin. The rash is usually found on the torso, arms, and legs.  Arthritis is another common feature of Blau syndrome. In affected individuals, arthritis is characterized by inflammation of the lining of joints (the synovium). This inflammation, known as synovitis, is associated with swelling and joint pain. Synovitis usually begins in the joints of the hands, feet, wrists, and ankles. As the condition worsens, it can restrict movement by decreasing the range of motion in many joints.  Most people with Blau syndrome also develop uveitis, which is swelling and inflammation of the middle layer of the eye (the uvea). The uvea includes the colored portion of the eye (the iris) and related tissues that underlie the white part of the eye (the sclera). Uveitis can cause eye irritation and pain, increased sensitivity to bright light (photophobia), and blurred vision. Other structures in the eye can also become inflamed, including the outermost protective layer of the eye (the conjunctiva), the tear glands, the specialized light-sensitive tissue that lines the back of the eye (the retina), and the nerve that carries information from the eye to the brain (the optic nerve). Inflammation of any of these structures can lead to severe vision impairment or blindness.  Less commonly, Blau syndrome can affect other parts of the body, including the liver, kidneys, brain, blood vessels, lungs, and heart. Inflammation involving these organs and tissues can cause life-threatening complications."
734,What are the stages of Urethral Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - After urethral cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the urethra or to other parts of the body.    - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - Urethral cancer is staged and treated based on the part of the urethra that is affected.         - Distal urethral cancer     - Proximal urethral cancer        - Bladder and/or prostate cancer may occur at the same time as urethral cancer.
                
                
                    After urethral cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the urethra or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the urethra or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.    The following procedures may be used in the staging process:         -   Chest x-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.     -   CT scan (CAT scan) of the pelvis and abdomen : A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of the pelvis and abdomen, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of the urethra, nearby lymph nodes, and other soft tissue and bones in the pelvis. A substance called gadolinium is injected into the patient through a vein. The gadolinium collects around the cancer cells so they show up brighter in the picture. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).     -  Urethrography: A series of x-rays of the urethra. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body. A dye is injected through the urethra into the bladder. The dye coats the bladder and urethra and x-rays are taken to see if the urethra is blocked and if cancer has spread to nearby tissue.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if urethral cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually urethral cancer cells. The disease is metastatic urethral cancer, not lung cancer.
                
                
                    Urethral cancer is staged and treated based on the part of the urethra that is affected.
                    Urethral cancer is staged and treated based on the part of the urethra that is affected and how deeply the tumor has spread into tissue around the urethra. Urethral cancer can be described as distal or proximal.       Distal urethral cancer    In distal urethral cancer, the cancer usually has not spread deeply into the tissue. In women, the part of the urethra that is closest to the outside of the body (about  inch) is affected. In men, the part of the urethra that is in the penis is affected.       Proximal urethral cancer     Proximal urethral cancer affects the part of the urethra that is not the distal urethra. In women and men, proximal urethral cancer usually has spread deeply into tissue.
                
                
                    Bladder and/or prostate cancer may occur at the same time as urethral cancer.
                    In men, cancer that forms in the proximal urethra (the part of the urethra that passes through the prostate to the bladder) may occur at the same time as cancer of the bladder and/or prostate. Sometimes this occurs at diagnosis and sometimes it occurs later."
735,What causes Heart Valve Disease ?,"Heart conditions and other disorders, age-related changes, rheumatic fever, or infections can cause acquired heart valve disease. These factors change the shape or flexibility of once-normal heart valves.
                
The cause of congenital heart valve disease isnt known. It occurs before birth as the heart is forming. Congenital heart valve disease can occur alone or with other types of congenital heartdefects.
                
Heart Conditions and Other Disorders
                
Certain conditions can stretch and distort the heart valves. These conditions include:
                
Advanced high blood pressure and heart failure, thiscan enlarge the heart or the main arteries.
                
Atherosclerosis in the aorta. Atherosclerosis is a condition in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside the arteries. The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood to the body.
                
Damage and scar tissue due to a heart attack or injury to the heart.
                
Rheumatic Fever
                
Untreated strep throat or other infections with strep bacteria that progress to rheumatic fever can cause heart valve disease.
                
When the body tries to fight the strep infection, one or more heart valves may be damaged or scarred in the process. The aortic and mitral valves most often are affected. Symptoms of heart valve damage often dont appear until many years after recovery from rheumatic fever.
                
Today, most people who have strep infections are treated with antibiotics before rheumatic fever occurs. If you have strep throat, take all of the antibiotics your doctor prescribes, even if you feel better before the medicine is gone.
                
Heart valve disease caused by rheumatic fever mainly affects older adults who had strep infections before antibiotics were available. It also affects people from developing countries, where rheumatic fever is more common.
                
Infections
                
Common germs that enter the bloodstream and get carried to the heart can sometimes infect the inner surface of the heart, including the heart valves. This rare but serious infection is called infective endocarditis.
                
The germs can enter the bloodstream through needles, syringes, or other medical devices and through breaks in the skin or gums. Often, the bodys defenses fight off the germs and no infection occurs. Sometimes these defenses fail, which leads to infective endocarditis.
                
Infective endocarditis can develop in people who already have abnormal blood flow through a heart valve as the result of congenital or acquired heart valve disease. The abnormal blood flow causes blood clots to form on the surface of the valve. The blood clots make it easier for germs to attach to and infect the valve.
                
Infective endocarditis can worsen existing heart valve disease.
                
Other Conditions and Factors Linked to Heart Valve Disease
                
Many other conditions and factors are linked to heart valve disease. However, the role they play in causing heart valve disease often isnt clear.
                
Autoimmune disorders. Autoimmune disorders, such as lupus, can affect the aortic and mitral valves.
                
Carcinoid syndrome. Tumors in the digestive tract that spread to the liver or lymph nodes can affect the tricuspid and pulmonary valves.
                
Diet medicines. The use of fenfluramine and phentermine (fen-phen) sometimes has been linked to heart valve problems. These problems typically stabilize or improve after the medicine is stopped.
                
Marfan syndrome. Congenital disorders, such as Marfan syndrome and other connective tissue disorders, can affect the heart valves.
                
Metabolic disorders. Relatively uncommon diseases (such as Fabry disease) and other metabolic disorders (such as high blood cholesterol) can affect the heart valves.
                
Radiation therapy. Radiation therapy to the chest area can cause heart valve disease. This therapy is used to treat cancer. Heart valve disease due to radiation therapy may not cause symptoms until years after the therapy."
736,What are the symptoms of Bixler Christian Gorlin syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Bixler Christian Gorlin syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Bixler Christian Gorlin syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Atresia of the external auditory canal 90% Hypertelorism 90% Microcephaly 90% Oral cleft 90% Abnormal localization of kidney 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Conductive hearing impairment 50% Short stature 50% 2-3 toe syndactyly - Abnormality of cardiovascular system morphology - Abnormality of the vertebrae - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bifid nose - Broad nasal tip - Cleft palate - Cleft upper lip - Ectopic kidney - Facial cleft - Microtia - Narrow mouth - Short 5th finger - Small thenar eminence - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
737,What are the symptoms of Norum disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Norum disease? Norum disease is marked by low plasma HDL levels and corneal clouding due to accumulation of cholesterol deposits in the cornea ('fish-eye'). Corneal opacity is often present at birth, beginning at the periphery of the cornea and progressing gradually to the center. Hemolytic anemia, and proteinuria are other common findings. This condition may also present with: Papilledema (swelling of the optic nerve) with impaired ocular blood supply, leading to functional visual loss Signs of renal insufficiency, including hypertension Signs of atherosclerosis Xanthelasma (in end-stage disease) Hepatomegaly Splenomegaly Lymphadenopathy The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Norum disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hemolytic anemia - Hypertriglyceridemia - Hypoalphalipoproteinemia - Normochromic anemia - Opacification of the corneal stroma - Proteinuria - Renal insufficiency - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
738,What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 3 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Dysautonomia 7.5% Ataxia 57/57 Gaze-evoked nystagmus 15/20 External ophthalmoplegia 34/57 Dysarthria 30/57 Spasticity 62/139 Dystonia 17/57 Fasciculations 12/57 Parkinsonism 3/57 Absent Achilles reflex - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Babinski sign - Bradykinesia - Cerebellar atrophy - Chronic pain - Dementia - Dilated fourth ventricle - Diplopia - Distal amyotrophy - Dysmetric saccades - Dysphagia - Facial-lingual fasciculations - Genetic anticipation - Gliosis - Impaired horizontal smooth pursuit - Limb ataxia - Muscle cramps - Postural instability - Progressive - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Proptosis - Ptosis - Rigidity - Spinocerebellar tract degeneration - Supranuclear ophthalmoplegia - Truncal ataxia - Urinary bladder sphincter dysfunction - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
739,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Giant Axonal Neuropathy ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports research related to GAN through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure inherited neurological disorders such as GAN."
740,How many people are affected by Partington syndrome ?,The prevalence of Partington syndrome is unknown. About 20 cases have been described in the medical literature.
741,What is (are) Locked-In Syndrome ?,"Locked-in syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by complete paralysis of voluntary muscles in all parts of the body except for those that control eye movement. It may result from traumatic brain injury, diseases of the circulatory system, diseases that destroy the myelin sheath surrounding nerve cells, or medication overdose. Individuals with locked-in syndrome are conscious and can think and reason, but are unable to speak or move. The disorder leaves individuals completely mute and paralyzed. Communication may be possible with blinking eye movements"
742,What are the symptoms of Heart Attack ?,"Symptoms Can Vary Not all heart attacks begin with the sudden, crushing chest pain that often is shown on TV or in the movies. The warning signs and symptoms of a heart attack aren't the same for everyone. Many heart attacks start slowly as mild pain or discomfort. Some people don't have symptoms at all. Heart attacks that occur without any symptoms or very mild symptoms are called silent heart attacks. However, some people may have a pattern of symptoms that recur. The more signs and symptoms you have, the more likely it is that you're having a heart attack If you have a second heart attack, your symptoms may not be the same as the first heart attack. Here are common signs and symptoms of a heart attack. Chest Pain or Discomfort The most common symptom of heart attack is chest pain or discomfort. Chest pain or discomfort that doesn't go away or changes from its usual pattern (for example, occurs more often or while you're resting) can be a sign of a heart attack. Most heart attacks involve discomfort in the center of the chest that lasts for more than a few minutes or goes away and comes back. The discomfort can feel like uncomfortable pressure, squeezing, fullness, or pain. It can be mild or severe. Heart attack pain can sometimes feel like indigestion or heartburn. All chest pain should be checked by a doctor. Other Upper Body Discomfort Discomfort can also occur in other areas of the upper body, including pain or numbness in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw or stomach. Shortness of Breath Shortness of breath often happens along with, or before chest discomfort. Other Symptoms Other symptoms may include - breaking out in a cold sweat   - having nausea and vomiting   - feeling light-headed or dizzy   - fainting   - sleep problems   - fatigue   - lack of energy.  breaking out in a cold sweat having nausea and vomiting feeling light-headed or dizzy fainting sleep problems fatigue lack of energy. Angina or a Heart Attack? Angina is chest pain or discomfort that occurs if an area of your heart muscle doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Angina occurs in people who have coronary heart disease, usually when they're active. Angina symptoms can be very similar to heart attack symptoms. Angina pain usually lasts for only a few minutes and goes away with rest. If you think you may be having a heart attack, or if your angina pain does not go away as usual when you take your angina medication as directed, call 9-1-1 for help. You can begin to receive life saving treatment in the ambulance on the way to the emergency room."
743,What is (are) What I need to know about Hepatitis C ?,"The liver is an organ that does many important things. You cannot live without a liver.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the words in bold type.
                
The liver
                
- removes harmful chemicals from your blood  - fights infection  - helps digest food  - stores nutrients and vitamins  - stores energy"
744,What are the genetic changes related to pseudocholinesterase deficiency ?,"Pseudocholinesterase deficiency can be caused by mutations in the BCHE gene. This gene provides instructions for making the pseudocholinesterase enzyme, also known as butyrylcholinesterase, which is produced by the liver and circulates in the blood. The pseudocholinesterase enzyme is involved in the breakdown of choline ester drugs. It is likely that the enzyme has other functions in the body, but these functions are not well understood. Studies suggest that the enzyme may be involved in the transmission of nerve signals.  Some BCHE gene mutations that cause pseudocholinesterase deficiency result in an abnormal pseudocholinesterase enzyme that does not function properly. Other mutations prevent the production of the pseudocholinesterase enzyme. A lack of functional pseudocholinesterase enzyme impairs the body's ability to break down choline ester drugs efficiently, leading to abnormally prolonged drug effects.  Pseudocholinesterase deficiency can also have nongenetic causes. In these cases, the condition is called acquired pseudocholinesterase deficiency; it is not inherited and cannot be passed to the next generation. Activity of the pseudocholinesterase enzyme can be impaired by kidney or liver disease, malnutrition, major burns, cancer, or certain drugs."
745,What causes Prinzmetal's variant angina ?,"What causes Prinzmetal's variant angina? Prinzmetal's variant angina is caused by coronary artery spasms. A coronary artery spasm is a temporary, abrupt, and focal (restricted to one location) contraction of the muscles in the wall of an artery in the heart. This spasm constricts the artery, slowing or stoping blood flow. A prolonged spasm can cause chest pain, or even a heart attack (myocardial infarction)."
746,What causes Triple A syndrome ?,"What causes triple A syndrome? Mutations in the AAAS gene cause triple A syndrome in many affected individuals. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called ALADIN, whose function is not well understood. Within cells, ALADIN is found in the nuclear envelope, the structure that surrounds the nucleus and separates it from the rest of the cell. Based on its location, ALADIN is thought to be involved in the movement of molecules into and out of the nucleus of the cell. Mutations in the AAAS gene prevent this protein from reaching its proper location in the cell, which may disrupt the movement of molecules. Researchers suspect that DNA repair proteins may be unable to enter the nucleus if ALADIN is missing from the nuclear envelope. DNA damage that is not repaired can cause the cell to become unstable and lead to cell death. Although the nervous system is particularly vulnerable to DNA damage, it remains unknown exactly how mutations in the AAAS gene lead to the signs and symptoms of triple A syndrome. Some individuals with triple A syndrome do not have an identified mutation in the AAAS gene; in these individuals, the genetic cause of the disorder is unknown."
747,Is Sandhoff disease inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
748,How many people are affected by COG5-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?,COG5-CDG is a very rare disorder; fewer than 10 cases have been described in the medical literature.
749,What are the symptoms of Tyrosinemia type 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tyrosinemia type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tyrosinemia type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria 90% Abnormality of bone mineral density 7.5% Abnormality of the spleen 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Abnormal bleeding - Abnormality of the abdominal wall - Acute hepatic failure - Ascites - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cirrhosis - Elevated alpha-fetoprotein - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Elevated urinary delta-aminolevulinic acid - Enlarged kidneys - Episodic peripheral neuropathy - Failure to thrive - Gastrointestinal hemorrhage - Glomerulosclerosis - Hepatocellular carcinoma - Hypermethioninemia - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Hypertyrosinemia - Hypoglycemia - Hypophosphatemic rickets - Nephrocalcinosis - Pancreatic islet-cell hyperplasia - Paralytic ileus - Periodic paralysis - Renal Fanconi syndrome - Renal insufficiency - Splenomegaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
750,What are the genetic changes related to SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome ?,"Mutations in the SOX2 gene cause SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays a critical role in the formation of many different tissues and organs during embryonic development. The SOX2 protein regulates the activity of other genes, especially those that are important for normal development of the eyes.  Mutations in the SOX2 gene prevent the production of functional SOX2 protein. The absence of this protein disrupts the activity of genes that are essential for the development of the eyes and other parts of the body. Abnormal development of these structures causes the signs and symptoms of SOX2 anophthalmia syndrome."
751,What to do for What I need to know about Hirschsprung Disease ?,"- Hirschsprung disease (HD) is a disease of the large intestine that causes severe constipation or intestinal obstruction. People with HD are born with it.  - The large intestine, which includes the colon and rectum, is the last part of the digestive tract.  - The cause of HD is unclear. HD is not caused by anything a mother did while pregnant.  - The main symptoms of HD are constipation or intestinal obstruction, usually appearing shortly after birth.  - Newborns with HD almost always fail to have their first bowel movement within 48 hours after birth.  - HD is diagnosed based on symptoms and test results.  - HD is treated with surgery called a pull-through procedure.  - A child who has been very sick from HD may need an ostomy to get better before the pull-through procedure.  - Most children pass stool normally after the pull-through procedure.  - People with HD can suffer from an infection of the intestines, called enterocolitis, before or after surgery.  - If you have a child with HD, your chance of having more children with HD is greater."
752,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Astrocytomas ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Other drug therapy     Lenalidomide is a type of angiogenesis inhibitor. It prevents the growth of new blood vessels that are needed by a tumor to grow.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
753,How many people are affected by sick sinus syndrome ?,Sick sinus syndrome accounts for 1 in 600 patients with heart disease who are over age 65. The incidence of this condition increases with age.
754,What is (are) Diagnosis of Diabetes and Prediabetes ?,"Prediabetes is when blood glucose levels are higher than normal but not high enough for a diagnosis of diabetes. Prediabetes means a person is at increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes, as well as for heart disease and stroke. Many people with prediabetes develop type 2 diabetes within 10 years.
                
However, modest weight loss and moderate physical activity can help people with prediabetes delay or prevent type 2 diabetes."
755,What are the treatments for Autism ?,"There is no cure for autism. Therapies and behavioral interventions are designed to remedy specific symptoms and can bring about substantial improvement. The ideal treatment plan coordinates therapies and interventions that meet the specific needs of individual children. Treatment options include educational/bahavioral interventions, medications, and other therapies. Most professionals agree that the earlier the intervention, the better."
756,What causes Gas in the Digestive Tract ?,"People can try to find the cause of gas on their own by keeping a diary of what they eat and drink and how often they burp, pass gas, or have other symptoms. A diary may help identify specific foods that cause gas.
                
A health care provider should be consulted if
                
- symptoms of gas are bothersome  - symptoms change suddenly  - new symptoms occur, especially in people older than age 40  - gas is accompanied by other symptoms, such as constipation, diarrhea, or weight loss
                
The health care provider will ask about dietary habits and symptoms and may ask a person to keep a food diary. Careful review of diet and the amount of burping or gas passed may help relate specific foods to symptoms and determine the severity of the problem. Recording gas symptoms can help determine whether the problem is too much gas in the intestines or increased sensitivity to normal amounts of gas.
                
If milk or milk products are causing gas, the health care provider may perform blood or breath tests to check for lactose intolerance, the inability or insufficient ability to digest lactose. Lactose intolerance is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme lactase, which is needed to digest lactose. The health care provider may suggest avoiding milk products for a short time to see if symptoms improve.
                
The health care provider may perform a physical exam and order other types of diagnostic tests, depending on a persons symptoms. These tests can rule out serious health problems that may cause gas or symptoms similar to those of gas."
757,What are the treatments for Pallister-Hall syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Pallister-Hall syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Pallister-Hall Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pallister-Hall syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Epiglottis (Image)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Imperforate Anus  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Polydactyly   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
758,What are the treatments for Pompe disease ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Pompe disease:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Glycogen Storage Disease Type II (Pompe Disease)  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease type II, infantile  - Genetic Testing Registry: Glycogen storage disease, type II   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
759,What are the treatments for congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of congenital sucrase-isomaltase deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sucrase-isomaltase deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Abdominal bloating  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Inborn errors of metabolism  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Malabsorption   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
760,What are the treatments for hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebral amyloid angiopathy, APP-related  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dementia familial British  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dementia, familial Danish  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy, Icelandic type  - Johns Hopkins Medicine: Intracerebral Hemorrhage  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
761,Is Hypokalemic periodic paralysis inherited ?,"How is hypokalemic periodic paralysis inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition."
762,Who is at risk for Smoking and the Digestive System? ?,"Smoking has been found to increase the risk of cancers of the3
                
- mouth  - esophagus  - stomach  - pancreas
                
3
                
,
                
4
                
,
                
5
                
- liver  - colon  - rectum
                
More information about the link between smoking and cancers of the digestive system can be found on the National Cancer Institute website at www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/tobacco/smoking."
763,Is aminoacylase 1 deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
764,What are the treatments for Motor Neuron Diseases ?,"There is no cure or standard treatment for the MNDs. Symptomatic and supportive treatment can help patients be more comfortable while maintaining their quality of life. The drug riluzole (Rilutek), which as of this date is the only drug approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat ALS, prolongs life by 2-3 months but does not relieve symptoms. Other medicines that may help reduce symptoms include muscle relaxants such as baclofen, tizanidine, and the benzodiazepines for spasticity; glycopyrrolate and atropine to treat excessive saliva; and anticonvulsants and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs to relieve pain. Panic attacks can be treated with benzodiazepines. Some patients may require stronger medicines such as morphine to cope with musculoskeletal abnormalities or pain in later stages of the disorders, and opiates are used to provide comfort care in terminal stages of the disease.
                
Physical and speech therapy, occupational therapy, and rehabilitation may help to improve posture, prevent joint immobility, slow muscle weakness and atrophy, and cope with swallowing difficulties. Applying heat may relieve muscle pain. Assistive devices such as supports or braces, orthotics, speech synthesizers, and wheelchairs help some patients retain independence. Proper nutrition and a balanced diet are essential to maintaining weight and strength."
765,How to diagnose Olivopontocerebellar atrophy ?,"How is olivopontocerebellar atrophy diagnosed? A diagnosis of olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA) may be based on a thorough medical exam; the presence of signs and symptoms; imaging studies; various laboratory tests; and an evaluation of the family history. MRI of the brain may show characteristics of OPCA, such as specific changes in the size of affected parts of the brain. This is more likely as the disease progresses; it is possible to have OPCA and have a normal brain MRI (especially within the first year of symptom onset). Hereditary OPCA may be suspected based on having a family history, and may be diagnosed by genetic testing (when available) for the condition suspected or known to be present in the family. Sporadic OPCA may be diagnosed if hereditary forms of OPCA, and other conditions associated with OPCA, have been ruled out."
766,What are the treatments for Colorectal Cancer ?,"Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the operation, many patients receive chemotherapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Chemotherapy treatment after surgery -- to increase the chances of a cure -- is called adjuvant therapy. Researchers have found that patients who received adjuvant therapy usually survived longer and went for longer periods of time without a recurrence of colon cancer than patients treated with surgery alone. Patients age 70 and older benefited from adjuvant treatment as much as their younger counterparts. In fact, adjuvant therapy is equally as effective -- and no more toxic -- for patients 70 and older as it is for younger patients, provided the older patients have no other serious diseases. Adjuvant chemotherapy is standard treatment for patients whose cancer is operable and who are at high risk for a recurrence of the disease. Most cases of colon cancer occur in individuals age 65 and over. But studies have shown that older patients receive adjuvant chemotherapy less frequently than younger patients."
767,What are the symptoms of Familial prostate cancer ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Familial prostate cancer? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial prostate cancer. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Neoplasm - Prostate cancer - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
768,What are the symptoms of Mantle cell lymphoma ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Mantle cell lymphoma? Common symptoms of Mantle cell lymphoma include fatigue, loss of appetite, and enlarged lymph nodes, spleen, and/or liver. Other symptoms may include night sweats, unexplained high fevers, and weight loss. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mantle cell lymphoma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hematological neoplasm 90% Lymphadenopathy 90% Anorexia 50% Splenomegaly 50% Weight loss 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
769,"What are the symptoms of Paget disease of bone, familial ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Paget disease of bone, familial? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Paget disease of bone, familial. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hearing impairment 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bone pain - Elevated alkaline phosphatase - Fractures of the long bones - Osteosarcoma - Patchy osteosclerosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
770,How many people are affected by Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome ?,Birt-Hogg-Dub syndrome is rare; its exact incidence is unknown. This condition has been reported in more than 400 families.
771,What are the treatments for familial atrial fibrillation ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of familial atrial fibrillation:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Atrial fibrillation, familial, 3  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Arrhythmias  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Atrial fibrillation/flutter   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
772,What are the symptoms of Lupus Nephritis ?,"The symptoms of lupus nephritis may include high blood pressure, foamy urine, and edemaswelling, usually in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face.
                
Kidney problems often develop at the same time or shortly after lupus symptoms appear and can include
                
- joint pain or swelling  - muscle pain  - fever with no known cause  - red rashes, often on the face, which are also called butterfly rashes because of their shape"
773,How many people are affected by glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"An estimated 400 million people worldwide have glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. This condition occurs most frequently in certain parts of Africa, Asia, and the Mediterranean. It affects about 1 in 10 African American males in the United States."
774,What are the genetic changes related to familial dilated cardiomyopathy ?,"Mutations in more than 30 genes have been found to cause familial dilated cardiomyopathy. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are found in cardiac muscle cells called cardiomyocytes.  Many of these proteins play important roles in the contraction of the cardiac muscle through their association with cell structures called sarcomeres. Sarcomeres are the basic units of muscle contraction; they are made of proteins that generate the mechanical force needed for muscles to contract. Many other proteins associated with familial dilated cardiomyopathy make up the structural framework (the cytoskeleton) of cardiomyocytes. The remaining proteins play various roles within cardiomyocytes to ensure their proper functioning.  Mutations in one gene, TTN, account for approximately 20 percent of cases of familial dilated cardiomyopathy. The TTN gene provides instructions for making a protein called titin, which is found in the sarcomeres of many types of muscle cells, including cardiomyocytes. Titin has several functions within sarcomeres. One of its most important jobs is to provide structure, flexibility, and stability to these cell structures. Titin also plays a role in chemical signaling and in assembling new sarcomeres. The TTN gene mutations that cause familial dilated cardiomyopathy result in the production of an abnormally short titin protein. It is unclear how the altered protein causes familial dilated cardiomyopathy, but it is likely that it impairs sarcomere function and disrupts chemical signaling.  It is unclear how mutations in the other genes cause familial dilated cardiomyopathy. It is likely that the changes impair cardiomyocyte function and reduce the ability of these cells to contract, weakening and thinning cardiac muscle.  People with familial dilated cardiomyopathy often do not have an identified mutation in any of the known associated genes. The cause of the condition in these individuals is unknown.  Familial dilated cardiomyopathy is described as nonsyndromic or isolated because it typically affects only the heart. However, dilated cardiomyopathy can also occur as part of syndromes that affect other organs and tissues in the body. These forms of the condition are described as syndromic and are caused by mutations in other genes. Additionally, there are many nongenetic causes of dilated cardiomyopathy, including viral infection and chronic alcohol abuse."
775,Is Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency inherited ?,"How is carnitine-acylcarnitine inherited? Carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
776,What are the treatments for hereditary multiple osteochondromas ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary multiple osteochondromas:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Multiple Osteochondromas  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple congenital exostosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Multiple exostoses type 2   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
777,What is (are) Dicarboxylic aminoaciduria ?,Dicarboxylic aminoaciduria is a rare metabolic disorder characterized by the excessive loss of aspartate and glutamate in urine. Symptoms have varied greatly among the few reported cases. Dicarboxylic aminoaciduria is caused by mutations in the SLC1A1 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.
778,What is (are) nonsyndromic paraganglioma ?,"Paraganglioma is a type of noncancerous (benign) tumor that occurs in structures called paraganglia. Paraganglia are groups of cells that are found near nerve cell bunches called ganglia. Paragangliomas are usually found in the head, neck, or torso. However, a type of paraganglioma known as pheochromocytoma develops in the adrenal glands. Adrenal glands are located on top of each kidney and produce hormones in response to stress. Most people with paraganglioma develop only one tumor in their lifetime.  Some people develop a paraganglioma or pheochromocytoma as part of a hereditary syndrome that may affect other organs and tissues in the body. However, the tumors often are not associated with any syndromes, in which case the condition is called nonsyndromic paraganglioma or pheochromocytoma.  Pheochromocytomas and some other paragangliomas are associated with ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system controls the ""fight-or-flight"" response, a series of changes in the body due to hormones released in response to stress. Although most sympathetic paragangliomas are pheochromocytomas, some are found outside the adrenal glands, usually in the abdomen, and are called extra-adrenal paragangliomas. Most sympathetic paragangliomas, including pheochromocytomas, produce hormones called catecholamines, such as epinephrine (adrenaline) or norepinephrine. These excess catecholamines can cause signs and symptoms such as high blood pressure (hypertension), episodes of rapid heartbeat (palpitations), headaches, or sweating.  Most paragangliomas are associated with ganglia of the parasympathetic nervous system, which controls involuntary body functions such as digestion and saliva formation. Parasympathetic paragangliomas, typically found in the head and neck, usually do not produce hormones. However, large tumors may cause signs and symptoms such as coughing, hearing loss in one ear, or difficulty swallowing.  Although most paragangliomas and pheochromocytomas are noncancerous, some can become cancerous (malignant) and spread to other parts of the body (metastasize). Extra-adrenal paragangliomas become malignant more often than other types of paraganglioma or pheochromocytoma."
779,What is (are) Nephrocalcinosis ?,"Nephrocalcinosis is a disorder in which there is excess calcium deposited in the kidneys. It is relatively common in premature infants. Individuals may be asymptomatic or have symptoms related to the condition causing nephrocalcinosis. If kidney stones are present, an individual may have blood in the urine; fever and chills; nausea and vomiting; or severe pain in the belly area, sides of the back (flank), groin, or testicles. Later symptoms related to nephrocalcinosis may be associated with chronic kidney failure. It may be caused by use of certain medications or supplements; infection; or any condition that leads to high levels of calcium in the blood or urine including hyperparathyroidism, renal tubular acidosis, Alport syndrome, Bartter syndrome, and a variety of other conditions. Some of the underlying disorders that can cause nephrocalcinosis are genetic, with the inheritance pattern depending on the specific disorder. The goal of treatment is to reduce symptoms and prevent more calcium from being deposited in the kidneys."
780,What are the treatments for Sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive ?,"How might sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive be treated? Currently there is not a cure for sideroblastic anemia pyridoxine-refractory autosomal recessive, however with proper treatment the life-expectancy of people with this anemia can be close to normal. Treatments are aimed at preventing organ damage from iron overload, and controlling symptoms of anemia. People with severe anemia may require periodic transfusions. Transfusions of red cells are kept to a minimum, to avoid accelerating iron overload. Treatment of iron overload involves an iron depletion program, such as therapeutic phlebotomy or iron chelation. Total splenectomy is contraindicated in this disorder. This form of sideroblastic anemia is not associated with an increased risk for leukemia. A few small studies have described the use of allogenic bone marrow or stem cell transplantation for hereditary and congenital forms of sideroblastic anemia. While these therapies may offer the possibility of a cure, the complications associated with transplantation surgery must be considered. All patients with sideroblastic anemia should be followed by a hematologist and avoid alcohol."
781,Is Cold urticaria inherited ?,Is cold urticaria inherited? Cold urticaria is not thought to be inherited. Most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition.
782,What are the symptoms of Vasculitis ?,"The signs and symptoms of vasculitis vary. They depend on the type of vasculitis you have, the organs involved, and the severity of the condition. Some people may have few signs and symptoms. Other people may become very sick.
                
Sometimes the signs and symptoms develop slowly, over months. Other times, the signs and symptoms develop quickly, over days or weeks.
                
Systemic Signs and Symptoms
                
Systemic signs and symptoms are those that affect you in a general or overall way. Common systemic signs and symptoms of vasculitis are:
                
Fever
                
Loss of appetite
                
Weight loss
                
Fatigue (tiredness)
                
General aches and pains
                
Organ- or Body System-Specific Signs and Symptoms
                
Vasculitis can affect specific organs and body systems, causing a range of signs and symptoms.
                
Skin
                
If vasculitis affects your skin, you may notice skin changes. For example, you may have purple or red spots or bumps, clusters of small dots, splotches, bruises, or hives. Your skin also may itch.
                
Joints
                
If vasculitis affects your joints, you may ache or develop arthritis in one or more joints.
                
Lungs
                
If vasculitis affects your lungs, you may feel short of breath. You may even cough up blood. The results from a chest x ray may show signs that suggest pneumonia, even though that may not be what you have.
                
Gastrointestinal Tract
                
If vasculitis affects your gastrointestinal tract, you may get ulcers (sores) in your mouth or have stomach pain.
                
In severe cases, blood flow to the intestines can be blocked. This can cause the wall of the intestines to weaken and possibly rupture (burst). A rupture can lead to serious problems or even death.
                
Sinuses, Nose, Throat, and Ears
                
If vasculitis affects your sinuses, nose, throat, and ears, you may have sinus or chronic (ongoing) middle ear infections. Other symptoms include ulcers in the nose and, in some cases, hearing loss.
                
Eyes
                
If vasculitis affects your eyes, you may develop red, itchy, burning eyes. Your eyes also may become sensitive to light, and your vision may blur. Rarely, certain types of vasculitis may cause blindness.
                
Brain
                
If vasculitis affects your brain, symptoms may include headaches, problems thinking clearly, changes in mental function, or stroke-like symptoms, such as muscle weakness and paralysis (an inability to move).
                
Nerves
                
If vasculitis affects your nerves, you may have numbness, tingling, and weakness in various parts of your body. You also may have a loss of feeling or strength in your hands and feet and shooting pains in your arms and legs."
783,What is (are) congenital diaphragmatic hernia ?,"Congenital diaphragmatic hernia is a defect in the diaphragm. The diaphragm, which is composed of muscle and other fibrous tissue, separates the organs in the abdomen from those in the chest. Abnormal development of the diaphragm before birth leads to defects ranging from a thinned area in the diaphragm to its complete absence. An absent or partially formed diaphragm results in an abnormal opening (hernia) that allows the stomach and intestines to move into the chest cavity and crowd the heart and lungs. This crowding can lead to underdevelopment of the lungs (pulmonary hypoplasia), potentially resulting in life-threatening breathing difficulties that are apparent from birth.  In 5 to 10 percent of affected individuals, signs and symptoms of congenital diaphragmatic hernia appear later in life and may include breathing problems or abdominal pain from protrusion of the intestine into the chest cavity. In about 1 percent of cases, congenital diaphragmatic hernia has no symptoms; it may be detected incidentally when medical imaging is done for other reasons.  Congenital diaphragmatic hernias are often classified by their position. A Bochdalek hernia is a defect in the side or back of the diaphragm. Between 80 and 90 percent of congenital diaphragmatic hernias are of this type. A Morgnani hernia is a defect involving the front part of the diaphragm. This type of congenital diaphragmatic hernia, which accounts for approximately 2 percent of cases, is less likely to cause severe symptoms at birth. Other types of congenital diaphragmatic hernia, such as those affecting the central region of the diaphragm, or those in which the diaphragm muscle is absent with only a thin membrane in its place, are rare."
784,What are the treatments for Myotonia Congenita ?,"Most people with myotonia congenita dont require special treatments. Stiff muscles usually resolve with exercise, or light movement, especially after resting. For individuals whose symptoms are more limiting, doctors have had some success with medications such as quinine, or anticonvulsant drugs such as phenytoin. Physical therapy and other rehabilitative therapies are also sometimes used to improve muscle function."
785,What are the genetic changes related to North American Indian childhood cirrhosis ?,"North American Indian childhood cirrhosis results from at least one known mutation in the UTP4 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called cirhin, whose precise function is unknown. Within cells, cirhin is located in a structure called the nucleolus, which is a small region inside the nucleus where ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is produced. A chemical cousin of DNA, rRNA is a molecule that helps assemble protein building blocks (amino acids) into functioning proteins. Researchers believe that cirhin may play a role in processing rRNA. Studies also suggest that cirhin may function by interacting with other proteins.  Cirhin is found in many different types of cells, so it is unclear why the effects of North American Indian childhood cirrhosis appear to be limited to the liver. Researchers are working to determine how a UTP4 gene mutation causes the progressive liver damage characteristic of this disorder."
786,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Liver (Hepatocellular) Cancer ?,"Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent liver cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for liver cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients."
787,What are the treatments for Lymphocytic infiltrate of Jessner ?,"How might lymphocytic infiltrate of Jessner be treated? Lymphocytic infiltrate of Jessner may require no treatment (since it can resolve spontaneously), but some patients benefit from cosmetic camouflage, photoprotection, excision of small lesions, topical steroids, intralesional steroids, oral hydroxychloroquine, systemic steroids, cryotherapy, methotrexate, thalidomide, and/or oral auranofin. There has been one case report describing treatment with a pulsed-dye laser that worked effectively in this patient after a single treatment without adverse side effects. This and further information on treatment of lymphocytic infiltrate of Jessner is available at the following link to the eMedicine online reference Web site: http://emedicine.medscape.com/article/1098654-treatment"
788,What is (are) 3MC syndrome ?,"3MC syndrome is a disorder characterized by unusual facial features and problems affecting other tissues and organs of the body.  The distinctive facial features of people with 3MC syndrome include widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), a narrowing of the eye opening (blepharophimosis), droopy eyelids (ptosis), highly arched eyebrows, and an opening in the upper lip (cleft lip) with an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate). Common features affecting other body systems include developmental delay, intellectual disability, hearing loss, and slow growth after birth resulting in short stature. Other features of 3MC syndrome can include abnormal fusion of certain bones in the skull (craniosynostosis) or forearm (radioulnar synostosis); an outgrowth of the tailbone (caudal appendage); a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (an umbilical hernia); and abnormalities of the kidneys, bladder, or genitals.  3MC syndrome encompasses four disorders that were formerly considered to be separate: Mingarelli, Malpeuch, Michels, and Carnevale syndromes. Researchers now generally consider these disorders to be part of the same condition, which is called 3MC based on the initials of the older condition names."
789,What is the outlook for Multiple System Atrophy ?,"The disease tends to advance rapidly over the course of 5 to 10 years, with progressive loss of motor skills, eventual confinement to bed, and death. There is no remission from the disease. There is currently no cure."
790,What are the symptoms of Hemochromatosis ?,"Hemochromatosis can affect many parts of the body and cause various signs and symptoms. Many of the signs and symptoms are similar to those of other diseases.
                
Signs and symptoms of hemochromatosis usually don't occur until middle age. Women are more likely to have general symptoms first, such as fatigue (tiredness). In men, complications such as diabetes or cirrhosis (scarring of the liver) often are the first signs of the disease.
                
Signs and symptoms also vary based on the severity of the disease. Common signs and symptoms of hemochromatosis include joint pain, fatigue, general weakness, weight loss, and stomach pain.
                
Not everyone who has hemochromatosis has signs or symptoms of the disease. Estimates of how many people develop signs and symptoms vary greatly. Some estimates suggest that as many as half of all people who have the disease don't have signs or symptoms.
                
Hemochromatosis Complications
                
If hemochromatosis isn't found and treated early, iron builds up in your body and can lead to:
                
Liver disease, including an enlarged liver, liver failure, liver cancer, or cirrhosis (scarring of the liver)
                
Heart problems, including arrhythmias (irregular heartbeats) and heart failure
                
Diabetes, especially in people who have a family history of diabetes
                
Joint damage and pain, including arthritis
                
Reproductive organ failure, such as erectile dysfunction (impotence), shrinkage of the testicles, and loss of sex drive in men, and absence of the menstrual cycle and early menopause in women
                
Changes in skin color that make the skin look gray or bronze
                
Underactive pituitary and thyroid glands
                
Damage to the adrenal glands"
791,How many people are affected by hereditary folate malabsorption ?,"The prevalence of hereditary folate malabsorption is unknown. Approximately 15 affected families have been reported worldwide. Researchers believe that some infants with this disorder may not get diagnosed or treated, particularly in areas where advanced medical care is not available."
792,Is Lupus inherited ?,"Is lupus inherited? The Lupus Foundation of American has a page called Is lupus hereditary? that provides a good overview. They also have a Genetics page for all of their content tagged as related to genetics. Medscape Reference has an in-depth review of the genetics of lupus that was written for healthcare professionals but can be useful to anyone looking for detailed information. You may have to register to view the article, but registration is free."
793,How to prevent Hemolytic Anemia ?,"You can't prevent inherited types of hemolytic anemia. One exception is glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency.
                
If you're born with G6PD deficiency, you can avoid substances that may trigger the condition. For example, avoid fava beans, naphthalene (a substance found in some moth balls), and certain medicines (as your doctor advises).
                
Some types of acquired hemolytic anemia can be prevented. For example, reactions to blood transfusions, which can cause hemolytic anemia, can be prevented. This requires careful matching of blood types between the blood donor and the recipient.
                
Prompt and proper prenatal care can help you avoid the problems of Rh incompatibility. This condition can occur during pregnancy if a woman has Rh-negative blood and her baby has Rh-positive blood. ""Rh-negative"" and ""Rh-positive"" refer to whether your blood has Rh factor. Rh factor is a protein on red blood cells.
                
Rh incompatibility can lead to hemolytic anemia in a fetus or newborn."
794,What are the symptoms of Osteogenesis imperfecta ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Osteogenesis imperfecta? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteogenesis imperfecta. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of dental color 90% Abnormality of dentin 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Abnormality of the tibia 90% Blue sclerae 90% Carious teeth 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Decreased skull ossification 90% Gait disturbance 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Macrocephaly 90% Pectus carinatum 90% Prominent occiput 90% Abnormal cortical bone morphology 50% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Abnormality of the femur 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Genu valgum 50% Glaucoma 50% Hyperhidrosis 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Narrow chest 50% Opacification of the corneal stroma 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Scoliosis 50% Slender long bone 50% Triangular face 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of the endocardium 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Micromelia 7.5% Pectus excavatum 7.5% Recurrent fractures 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Subcutaneous hemorrhage 7.5% Thrombocytopenia 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Visceral angiomatosis 7.5% Wormian bones 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
795,"Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type inherited ?","Is Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type inherited? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. The parents of an affected person usually each carry one mutated copy of the gene and are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not show signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) risk to have the condition, a 50% (1 in 2) risk to be a carrier like each of the parents, and a 25% chance to not have the condition and not be a carrier."
796,What are the symptoms of Eosinophilic enteropathy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of eosinophilic enteropathy? The symptoms of eosinophilic gastroenteritis vary depending on where the eosinophils build up in the gastrointestinal system and which layers of the intestinal wall are involved. Symptoms often include pain, skin rash, acid reflux, anemia, diarrhea, stomach cramps, bleeding, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, blood loss in stools, and choking. Symptoms can occur at any age, although they usually develop between ages 20 and 50 years. The symptoms of eosinophilic enteropathy overlap with other gastrointestinal disorders, such as ulcerative colitis, which makes diagnosis difficult. It is common for individuals with this disorder to have symptoms for many years before an accurate diagnosis is made."
797,What is the outlook for Fabry Disease ?,"Individuals with Fabry disease often die prematurely of complications from strokes, heart disease, or kidney failure."
798,What are the symptoms of Autosomal recessive palmoplantar keratoderma and congenital alopecia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Autosomal recessive palmoplantar keratoderma and congenital alopecia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Autosomal recessive palmoplantar keratoderma and congenital alopecia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 90% Atypical scarring of skin 90% Cataract 90% Lack of skin elasticity 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Palmoplantar keratoderma 90% Visual impairment 90% Alopecia totalis - Amniotic constriction ring - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Camptodactyly of finger - Congenital cataract - Dry skin - Facial erythema - Hyperkeratosis - Nail dysplasia - Nail dystrophy - Palmoplantar hyperkeratosis - Sclerodactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
799,What are the treatments for sitosterolemia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of sitosterolemia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Sitosterolemia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Sitosterolemia  - Massachusetts General Hospital: Lipid Metabolism   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
800,What are the symptoms of Epilepsy occipital calcifications ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Epilepsy occipital calcifications? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Epilepsy occipital calcifications. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis 90% Abnormality of the cerebral vasculature 90% Anemia 90% Cerebral calcification 90% Malabsorption 90% Seizures 90% Visual impairment 90% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Celiac disease - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
801,What are the symptoms of Crisponi syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Crisponi syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Crisponi syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anteverted nares 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Full cheeks 90% Hyperhidrosis 90% Hypertonia 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Kyphosis 90% Large face 90% Long philtrum 90% Malignant hyperthermia 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Scoliosis 90% Sudden cardiac death 90% Abnormality of the palate 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Narrow mouth 7.5% Seizures 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
802,What causes Respiratory Distress Syndrome ?,"The main cause of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a lack of surfactant in the lungs. Surfactant is a liquid that coats the inside of the lungs.
                
A fetus's lungs start making surfactant during the third trimester of pregnancy (weeks 26 through labor and delivery). The substance coats the insides of the air sacs in the lungs. This helps keep the lungs open so breathing can occur after birth.
                
Without enough surfactant, the lungs will likely collapse when the infant exhales (breathes out). The infant then has to work harder to breathe. He or she might not be able to get enough oxygen to support the body's organs.
                
Some full-term infants develop RDS because they have faulty genes that affect how their bodies make surfactant."
803,What is (are) Endocrine Diseases ?,"Your endocrine system includes eight major glands throughout your body. These glands make hormones. Hormones are chemical messengers. They travel through your bloodstream to tissues or organs. Hormones work slowly and affect body processes from head to toe. These include       - Growth and development    - Metabolism - digestion, elimination, breathing, blood circulation and maintaining body temperature     - Sexual function    - Reproduction    - Mood       If your hormone levels are too high or too low, you may have a hormone disorder. Hormone diseases also occur if your body does not respond to hormones the way it is supposed to. Stress, infection and changes in your blood's fluid and electrolyte balance can also influence hormone levels.    In the United States, the most common endocrine disease is diabetes. There are many others. They are usually treated by controlling how much hormone your body makes. Hormone supplements can help if the problem is too little of a hormone."
804,What is (are) Hirschsprung's disease ?,"Hirschsprung disease is a disease of the large intestine or colon. People with this disease do not have the nerve cells in the intestine required to expel stools from the body normally. Symptoms of Hirschsprung disease usually show up in very young children, but sometimes not until adolescence or adulthood. The symptoms may vary with age, but often involve constipation and/or obstruction of the bowel."
805,what is vancomycin-resistant enterococci?,"On this Page General Information What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What types of infections does vancomycin-resistant enterococci cause? Are certain people at risk of getting vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What is the treatment for vancomycin-resistant enterococci? How is vancomycin-resistant enterococci spread? How can patients prevent the spread of vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What should a patient do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Recommendations and Guidelines General Information For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Enteroccocci are bacteria that are normally present in the human intestines and in the female genital tract and are often found in the environment. These bacteria can sometimes cause infections. Vancomycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat some drug-resistant infections caused by enterococci. In some instances, enterococci have become resistant to this drug and thus are called vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). Most VRE infections occur in hospitals. Top of page What types of infections does VRE cause? VRE can live in the human intestines and female genital tract without causing disease (often called colonization). However, sometimes it can cause infections of the urinary tract, the bloodstream, or of wounds associated with catheters or surgical procedures. Top of page Are certain people at risk of getting VRE? The following persons are at increased risk becoming infected with VRE: People who have been previously treated with the antibiotic vancomycin or other antibiotics for long periods of time. People who are hospitalized, particularly when they receive antibiotic treatment for long periods of time. People with weakened immune systems such as patients in intensive care units, or in cancer or transplant wards. People who have undergone surgical procedures such as abdominal or chest surgery. People with medical devices that stay in for some time such as urinary catheters or central intravenous (IV) catheters. People who are colonized with VRE. Top of page What is the treatment for VRE? People with colonized VRE (bacteria are present, but have no symptoms of an infection)  do not need treatment. Most VRE infections can be treated with antibiotics other than vancomycin. Laboratory testing of the VRE can determine which antibiotics will work. For people who get VRE infections in their bladder and have urinary catheters, removal of the catheter when it is no longer needed can also help get rid of the infection. Top of page How is VRE spread? VRE is often passed from person to person by the contaminated hands of caregivers. VRE can get onto a caregiver's hands after they have contact with other people with VRE or after contact with contaminated surfaces. VRE can also be spread directly to people after they touch surfaces that are contaminated with VRE. VRE is not spread through the air by coughing or sneezing. Top of page How can patients prevent the spread of VRE? If a patient or someone in their household has VRE, the following are some things they can do to prevent the spread of VRE: Keep their hands clean. Always wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom and before preparing food. Clean their hands after contact with persons who have VRE. Wash with soap and water (particularly when visibly soiled) or use alcohol-based hand rubs. Frequently clean areas of the home, such as bathrooms, that may become contaminated with VRE. Wear gloves if hands may come in contact with body fluids that may contain VRE, such as stool or bandages from infected wounds. Always wash their hands after removing gloves. If someone has VRE, be sure to tell healthcare providers so that they are aware of the infection. Healthcare facilities use special precautions to help prevent the spread of VRE to others. Top of page What should patients do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE)? Anyone who thinks they have VRE must talk with their healthcare provider. Top of page Recommendations and Guidelines For more information about prevention and treatment of HAIs, see the resources below: Siegel JD, Rhinehart E, Jackson M, et al. The Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC). Management of Multidrug-Resistant Organisms In Healthcare Settings, 2006"
806,Is spastic paraplegia type 3A inherited ?,"Spastic paraplegia type 3A is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In approximately 95 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent."
807,What are the treatments for Ewing sarcoma ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Ewing sarcoma:  - Cancer.Net: Ewing Family of Tumors - Childhood: Diagnosis  - Cancer.Net: Ewing Family of Tumors - Childhood: Treatment  - Genetic Testing Registry: Ewing's sarcoma  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Ewing Sarcoma   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
808,What are the symptoms of Indigestion ?,"Most people with indigestion experience more than one of the following symptoms:
                
- Fullness during a meal. The person feels overly full soon after the meal starts and cannot finish the meal.  - Bothersome fullness after a meal. The person feels overly full after a mealit may feel like the food is staying in the stomach too long.  - Epigastric pain. The epigastric area is between the lower end of the chest bone and the navel. The person may experience epigastric pain ranging from mild to severe.  - Epigastric burning. The person feels an unpleasant sensation of heat in the epigastric area.
                
Other, less frequent symptoms that may occur with indigestion are nausea and bloatingan unpleasant tightness in the stomach. Nausea and bloating could be due to causes other than indigestion.
                
Sometimes the term indigestion is used to describe the symptom of heartburn, but these are two different conditions. Heartburn is a painful, burning feeling in the chest that radiates toward the neck or back. Heartburn is caused by stomach acid rising into the esophagus and may be a symptom of GERD. A person can have symptoms of both indigestion and heartburn."
809,Do you have information about Cervical Cancer Screening,"Summary : The cervix is the lower part of the uterus, the place where a baby grows during pregnancy. Cancer screening is looking for cancer before you have any symptoms. Cancer found early may be easier to treat.    Cervical cancer screening is usually part of a woman's health checkup. There are two types of tests: the Pap test and the HPV test. For both, the doctor or nurse collects cells from the surface of the cervix. With the Pap test, the lab checks the sample for cancer cells or abnormal cells that could become cancer later. With the HPV test, the lab checks for HPV infection. HPV is a virus that spreads through sexual contact. It can sometimes lead to cancer. If your screening tests are abnormal, your doctor may do more tests, such as a biopsy.    Cervical cancer screening has risks. The results can sometimes be wrong, and you may have unnecessary follow-up tests. There are also benefits. Screening has been shown to decrease the number of deaths from cervical cancer. You and your doctor should discuss your risk for cervical cancer, the pros and cons of the screening tests, at what age to start being screened, and how often to be screened."
810,What is (are) Wildervanck syndrome ?,"Wildervanck syndrome is a condition that occurs almost exclusively in females and affects the bones in the neck, the eyes, and the ears.  It is characterized by Klippel-Feil anomaly (in which the bones of the neck fuse together), Duane syndrome (an eye movement disorder that is present from birth), and hearing loss.   The cause of Wildervanck syndrome is unknown.  In most cases, affected individuals have no family history of the condition."
811,How many people are affected by hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy ?,"Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy is a rare disorder, but its specific prevalence is unknown. Approximately 200 families affected by the disorder have been identified worldwide."
812,What are the treatments for spastic paraplegia type 2 ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of spastic paraplegia type 2:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia Overview  - Gene Review: Gene Review: PLP1-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Spastic paraplegia 2  - Spastic Paraplegia Foundation, Inc.: Treatments and Therapies   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
813,What are the symptoms of Ankyloblepharon filiforme imperforate anus ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ankyloblepharon filiforme imperforate anus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ankyloblepharon filiforme imperforate anus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the palpebral fissures 90% Urogenital fistula 90% Reduced number of teeth 50% Cleft palate 7.5% Non-midline cleft lip 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
814,What is (are) Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder ?,"Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a real illness. You can get PTSD after living through or seeing a traumatic event, such as war, a hurricane, sexual assault, physical abuse, or a bad accident. PTSD makes you feel stressed and afraid after the danger is over. It affects your life and the people around you.    PTSD can cause problems like       - Flashbacks, or feeling like the event is happening again    - Trouble sleeping or nightmares    - Feeling alone    - Angry outbursts    - Feeling worried, guilty, or sad       PTSD starts at different times for different people. Signs of PTSD may start soon after a frightening event and then continue. Other people develop new or more severe signs months or even years later. PTSD can happen to anyone, even children.    Treatment may include talk therapy, medicines, or both. Treatment might take 6 to 12 weeks. For some people, it takes longer.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
815,What are the treatments for Smith-Magenis syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Smith-Magenis syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Smith-Magenis Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Smith-Magenis syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Intellectual Disability   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
816,What are the genetic changes related to Sotos syndrome ?,"Mutations in the NSD1 gene are the primary cause of Sotos syndrome, accounting for up to 90 percent of cases. Other genetic causes of this condition have not been identified.  The NSD1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that functions as a histone methyltransferase. Histone methyltransferases are enzymes that modify structural proteins called histones, which attach (bind) to DNA and give chromosomes their shape. By adding a molecule called a methyl group to histones (a process called methylation), histone methyltransferases regulate the activity of certain genes and can turn them on and off as needed. The NSD1 protein controls the activity of genes involved in normal growth and development, although most of these genes have not been identified.  Genetic changes involving the NSD1 gene prevent one copy of the gene from producing any functional protein. Research suggests that a reduced amount of NSD1 protein disrupts the normal activity of genes involved in growth and development. However, it remains unclear exactly how a shortage of this protein during development leads to overgrowth, learning disabilities, and the other features of Sotos syndrome."
817,What are the symptoms of Autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease with hoarseness ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease with hoarseness? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Autosomal recessive Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease with hoarseness. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Onion bulb formation 7.5% Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Axonal degeneration/regeneration - Decreased motor nerve conduction velocity - Decreased number of peripheral myelinated nerve fibers - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Flexion contracture - Neonatal onset - Pes cavus - Spinal deformities - Split hand - Vocal cord paresis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
818,What is (are) Thyroid Diseases ?,"Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your collarbone. It is one of your endocrine glands, which make hormones. Thyroid hormones control the rate of many activities in your body. These include how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. All of these activities are your body's metabolism.    Thyroid problems include       - Goiter - enlargement of the thyroid gland    - Hyperthyroidism - when your thyroid gland makes more thyroid hormones than your body needs    - Hypothyroidism - when your thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormones    - Thyroid cancer    - Thyroid nodules - lumps in the thyroid gland    - Thyroiditis - swelling of the thyroid       Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
819,How to diagnose Peutz-Jeghers syndrome ?,"Is genetic testing available for Peutz-Jeghers syndrome? Yes, genetic testing is available for STK11, the gene known to cause Peutz-Jeghers syndrome. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing are possible if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional. How is Peutz-Jeghers syndrome diagnosed? A diagnosis of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. In people with a clinical diagnosis of PJS, genetic testing of the STK11 gene confirms the diagnosis in approximately 100% of people who have a positive family history and approximately 90% of people who have no family history of PJS. Genereviews offers more detailed information regarding the diagnosis of PJS including the clinical diagnostic criteria. Click here to view this resource."
820,What are the symptoms of Long QT syndrome 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Long QT syndrome 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Long QT syndrome 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the ear - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Heterogeneous - Prolonged QT interval - Sudden cardiac death - Syncope - Torsade de pointes - Ventricular fibrillation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
821,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Central Pain Syndrome ?,The NINDS vigorously pursues a research program seeking new treatments for chronic pain and nervous system damage. The goals of this research are to develop ways to more effectively treat and potentially reverse debilitating conditions such as central pain syndrome.
822,What are the symptoms of Diabetic Retinopathy ?,"Diabetic retinopathy often has no early warning signs. Don't wait for symptoms. Be sure to have a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once a year to detect the disease before it causes damage to your vision. Vision Changes May Indicate Bleeding In the early stages of diabetic retinopathy, you may not notice any changes in your vision. But if diabetic retinopathy reaches its final stage, proliferative retinopathy, bleeding can occur. If this happens, at first, you will see a few specks of blood, or spots, floating in your vision. If spots occur, see your eye care professional as soon as possible. Early Treatment is Important You may need treatment before more serious bleeding or hemorrhages occur causing vision loss or possibly blindness. Hemorrhages tend to happen more than once, often during sleep. See how to find an eye care professional.  Here is a list of questions to ask your eye care professional. Sometimes the spots clear without treatment, and you will see better. However, bleeding can reoccur and cause severely blurred vision. You need to be examined by your eye care professional at the first sign of blurred vision, before more bleeding occurs. If left untreated, proliferative retinopathy can cause severe vision loss and even blindness. Also, the earlier you receive treatment, the more likely treatment will be successful. Detection Diabetic retinopathy and macular edema are detected during a comprehensive eye exam that includes a visual acuity test, dilated eye exam, and tonometry. A visual acuity test is an eye chart test that measures how well you see at various distances. During the dilated eye exam, your eye care professional checks your retina for early signs of the disease, including - leaking blood vessels  - retinal swelling such as macular edema  - pale, fatty deposits on the retina -- signs of leaking blood vessels  - damaged nerve tissue leaking blood vessels retinal swelling such as macular edema pale, fatty deposits on the retina -- signs of leaking blood vessels damaged nerve tissue Watch an animation showing what a comprehensive dilated eye exam involves. With tonometry, an instrument measures the pressure inside the eye. Numbing drops may be applied to your eye for this test. If your eye care professional believes you need treatment for macular edema, he or she may suggest a fluorescein angiogram. In this test, a special dye is injected into your arm. Pictures are taken as the dye passes through the blood vessels in your retina. The test allows your eye care professional to identify any leaking blood vessels and recommend treatment."
823,What are the treatments for Prurigo nodularis ?,"Is there treatment for prurigo nodularis? Prurigo nodularis can be challenging to treat.  Due to the intensity of the itch patients may go from doctor to doctor without receiving much relief. Treatment may vary from person to person, as no one treatment is always effective at alleviating symptoms. Several treatments may need to be tried.  You can read further treatment information by visiting the American Osteopathic College of Dermatology (ACOD) information page on prurigo nodularis.  Click here to view the page from the ACOD."
824,Is TARP syndrome inherited ?,"How is TARP syndrome inherited? TARP syndrome is inherited in an X-linked recessive manner. This means that the mutated gene responsible for TARP syndrome (RBM10) is located on the X chromosome, and typically only affects males. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome, while females have two X chromosomes. If a female has one mutated copy of RBM10 and one normal copy, she would typically be an unaffected carrier of this condition. Occasionally, female carriers of an X-linked recessive condition may have varying degrees of signs or symptoms of the condition; this is due to differences in X chromosome inactivation. When a female carrier of an X-linked condition has children, each daughter has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to also be a carrier, and a 50% risk to not be a carrier (and have 2 normal copies of the gene). Each son has a 50% risk to be affected and a 50% risk to be unaffected."
825,What is (are) Horner syndrome ?,"Horner syndrome is a disorder that affects the eye and surrounding tissues on one side of the face and results from paralysis of certain nerves. Horner syndrome can appear at any time of life; in about 5 percent of affected individuals, the disorder is present from birth (congenital).  Horner syndrome is characterized by drooping of the upper eyelid (ptosis) on the affected side, a constricted pupil in the affected eye (miosis) resulting in unequal pupil size (anisocoria), and absent sweating (anhidrosis) on the affected side of the face. Sinking of the eye into its cavity (enophthalmos) and a bloodshot eye often occur in this disorder. In people with Horner syndrome that occurs before the age of 2, the colored part (iris) of the eyes may differ in color (iris heterochromia), with the iris of the affected eye being lighter in color than that of the unaffected eye. Individuals who develop Horner syndrome after age 2 do not generally have iris heterochromia.  The abnormalities in the eye area related to Horner syndrome do not generally affect vision or health. However, the nerve damage that causes Horner syndrome may result from other health problems, some of which can be life-threatening."
826,What is (are) Congenital Myopathy ?,"A myopathy is a disorder of the muscles that usually results in weakness. Congenital myopathy refers to a group of muscle disorders that appear at birth or in infancy. Typically, an infant with a congenital myopathy will be ""floppy,"" have difficulty breathing or feeding, and will lag behind other babies in meeting normal developmental milestones such as turning over or sitting up.
                
Muscle weakness can occur for many reasons, including a problem with the muscle, a problem with the nerve that stimulates the muscle, or a problem with the brain. Therefore, to diagnose a congenital myopathy, a neurologist will perform a detailed physical exam as well as tests to determine the cause of weakness. If a myopathy is suspected, possible tests include a blood test for a muscle enzyme called creatine kinase, an electromyogram (EMG) to evaluate the electrical activity of the muscle, a muscle biopsy, and genetic testing.
                
There are currently seven distinct types of congenital myopathy, with some variation in symptoms, complications, treatment options, and outlook.
                
Nemaline myopathy is the most common congenital myopathy. Infants usually have problems with breathing and feeding. Later, some skeletal problems may arise, such as scoliosis (curvature of the spine). In general, the weakness does not worsen during life.
                
Myotubular myopathy is rare and only affects boys. Weakness and floppiness are so severe that a mother may notice reduced movements of the baby in her womb during pregnancy. There are usually significant breathing and swallowing difficulties; many children do not survive infancy. Osteopenia (weakening of the bones) is also associated with this disorder.
                
Centronuclear myopathy is rare and begins in infancy or early childhood with weakness of the arms and legs, droopy eyelids, and problems with eye movements. Weakness often gets worse with time.
                
Central core disease varies among children with regard to the severity of problems and the degree of worsening over time. Usually, there is mild floppiness in infancy, delayed milestones, and moderate limb weakness, which do not worsen much over time. Children with central core disease may have life-threatening reactions to general anesthesia. Treatment with the drug salbutamol has been shown to reduce weakness significantly, although it does not cure the disorder.
                
Multi-minicore disease has several different subtypes. Common to most is severe weakness of the limbs and scoliosis. Often breathing difficulties occur as well. Some children have weakened eye movements.
                
Congenital fiber-type disproportion myopathy is a rare disorder that begins with floppiness, limb and facial weakness, and breathing problems.
                
Hyaline body myopathy is a disorder characterized by the specific appearance under the microscope of a sample of muscle tissue. It probably includes several different causes. Because of this, the symptoms are quite variable."
827,What is (are) High Blood Cholesterol ?,"Your LDL cholesterol goal level depends on your risk for developing heart disease or having a heart attack at the time you start treatment. Major risk factors that affect your LDL goal include - cigarette smoking  - high blood pressure (140/90 mmHg or higher), or being on blood pressure medicine  - low HDL cholesterol (less than 40 mg/dL)  - family history of early heart disease (heart disease in father or brother before age 55; heart disease in mother or sister before age 65)  - age (men 45 years or older; women 55 years or older). cigarette smoking high blood pressure (140/90 mmHg or higher), or being on blood pressure medicine low HDL cholesterol (less than 40 mg/dL) family history of early heart disease (heart disease in father or brother before age 55; heart disease in mother or sister before age 65) age (men 45 years or older; women 55 years or older)."
828,Is familial hypobetalipoproteinemia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal codominant pattern. Codominance means that copies of the gene from both parents are active (expressed), and both copies influence the genetic trait. In FHBL, a change in one copy of the APOB gene in each cell can cause the condition, but changes in both copies of the gene cause more severe health problems."
829,What are the complications of Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?,"Heart problems are a complication of anemia and may include
                
- an irregular heartbeat or an unusually fast heartbeat, especially when exercising.  - the harmful enlargement of muscles in the heart.  - heart failure, which does not mean the heart suddenly stops working. Instead, heart failure is a long-lasting condition in which the heart cant pump enough blood to meet the bodys needs."
830,Do you have information about Infection Control,"Summary : Every year, lives are lost because of the spread of infections in hospitals. Health care workers can take steps to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. These steps are part of infection control.    Proper hand washing is the most effective way to prevent the spread of infections in hospitals. If you are a patient, don't be afraid to remind friends, family and health care providers to wash their hands before getting close to you.    Other steps health care workers can take include       -  Covering coughs and sneezes    -  Staying up-to-date with immunizations    -  Using gloves, masks and protective clothing    -  Making tissues and hand cleaners available     -  Following hospital guidelines when dealing with blood or contaminated items"
831,"what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?","New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. Some women receive a treatment called intraperitoneal radiation therapy, in which radioactive liquid is put directly in the abdomen through a catheter. Intraperitoneal radiation therapy is being studied to treat advanced ovarian cancer.       Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Vaccine therapy uses a substance to stimulate the immune system to destroy a tumor. Vaccine therapy is being studied to treat advanced ovarian cancer.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
832,What is (are) idiopathic inflammatory myopathy ?,"Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy is a group of disorders characterized by inflammation of the muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). Idiopathic inflammatory myopathy usually appears in adults between ages 40 and 60 or in children between ages 5 and 15, though it can occur at any age.  The primary symptom of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy is muscle weakness, which develops gradually over a period of weeks to months or even years. Other symptoms include joint pain and general tiredness (fatigue).  There are several forms of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy, including polymyositis, dermatomyositis, and sporadic inclusion body myositis.  Polymyositis and dermatomyositis involve weakness of the muscles closest to the center of the body (proximal muscles), such as the muscles of the hips and thighs, upper arms, and neck. People with these forms of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy may find it difficult to climb stairs, get up from a seated position, or lift items above their head. In some cases, muscle weakness may make swallowing or breathing difficult.  Polymyositis and dermatomyositis have similar symptoms, but dermatomyositis is distinguished by a reddish or purplish rash on the eyelids, elbows, knees, or knuckles. Sometimes, abnormal calcium deposits form hard, painful bumps under the skin (calcinosis).  In sporadic inclusion body myositis, the muscles most affected are those of the wrists and fingers and the front of the thigh. Affected individuals may frequently stumble while walking and find it difficult to grasp items. As in dermatomyositis and polymyositis, swallowing can be difficult."
833,What are the genetic changes related to congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?,"Mutations in the CTSD gene cause congenital NCL. The CTSD gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called cathepsin D. Cathepsin D is one of a family of cathepsin proteins that act as proteases, which modify proteins by cutting them apart. Cathepsin D is found in many types of cells and is active in lysosomes, which are compartments within cells that digest and recycle different types of molecules. By cutting proteins apart, cathepsin D can break proteins down, turn on (activate) proteins, and regulate self-destruction of the cell (apoptosis).  CTSD gene mutations that cause congenital NCL lead to a complete lack of cathepsin D enzyme activity. As a result, proteins and other materials are not broken down properly. In the lysosomes, these materials accumulate into fatty substances called lipopigments. These accumulations occur in cells throughout the body, but neurons are likely particularly vulnerable to damage caused by the abnormal cell materials and the loss of cathepsin D function. Early and widespread cell death in congenital NCL leads to severe signs and symptoms and death in infancy."
834,What are the symptoms of Eisenmenger syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Eisenmenger syndrome? Symptoms of Eisenmenger include shortness of breath, chest pain, feeling tired or dizzy, fainting, abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia), stroke, coughing up blood, swelling of joints from excess uric acid (gout) and, bluish lips, fingers, toes, and skin (cyanosis). Eisenmenger syndrome usually develops before a child reaches puberty but can also develop in young adulthood."
835,Who is at risk for Sudden Cardiac Arrest? ?,"The risk of sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) increases:
                
With age
                
If you are a man. Men are more likely than women to have SCA.
                
Some studies show that blacksparticularly those with underlying conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease or certain cardiac findings on tests such as an electrocardiogramhave a higher risk forSCA.
                
Major Risk Factor
                
The major risk factor for SCA is coronary heart disease. Most people who have SCA have some degree of coronary heart disease; however, many people may not know that they have coronary heart disease until SCA occurs. Usually their coronary heart disease is silentthat is, it has no signs or symptoms. Because of this, doctors and nurses have not detected it.
                
Many people who have SCA also have silent, or undiagnosed, heart attacks before sudden cardiac arrest happens. These people have no clear signs of heart attack, and they dont even realize that theyve had one. Read more about coronary heart disease risk factors.
                
Other Risk Factors
                
Other risk factors for SCA include:
                
A personal history of arrhythmias
                
A personal or family history of SCA or inherited disorders that make you prone toarrhythmias
                
Drug or alcohol abuse
                
Heart attack
                
Heart failure"
836,What are the symptoms of Talonavicular coalition ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Talonavicular coalition? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Talonavicular coalition. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Clinodactyly of the 5th finger - Proximal/middle symphalangism of 5th finger - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
837,What are the genetic changes related to Brugada syndrome ?,"Brugada syndrome can be caused by mutations in one of several genes. The most commonly mutated gene in this condition is SCN5A, which is altered in approximately 30 percent of affected individuals. This gene provides instructions for making a sodium channel, which normally transports positively charged sodium atoms (ions) into heart muscle cells. This type of ion channel plays a critical role in maintaining the heart's normal rhythm. Mutations in the SCN5A gene alter the structure or function of the channel, which reduces the flow of sodium ions into cells. A disruption in ion transport alters the way the heart beats, leading to the abnormal heart rhythm characteristic of Brugada syndrome.  Mutations in other genes can also cause Brugada syndrome. Together, these other genetic changes account for less than two percent of cases of the condition. Some of the additional genes involved in Brugada syndrome provide instructions for making proteins that ensure the correct location or function of sodium channels in heart muscle cells. Proteins produced by other genes involved in the condition form or help regulate ion channels that transport calcium or potassium into or out of heart muscle cells. As with sodium channels, proper flow of ions through calcium and potassium channels in the heart muscle helps maintain a regular heartbeat. Mutations in these genes disrupt the flow of ions, impairing the heart's normal rhythm.  In affected people without an identified gene mutation, the cause of Brugada syndrome is often unknown. In some cases, certain drugs may cause a nongenetic (acquired) form of the disorder. Drugs that can induce an altered heart rhythm include medications used to treat some forms of arrhythmia, a condition called angina (which causes chest pain), high blood pressure, depression, and other mental illnesses. Abnormally high blood levels of calcium (hypercalcemia) or potassium (hyperkalemia), as well as unusually low potassium levels (hypokalemia), also have been associated with acquired Brugada syndrome. In addition to causing a nongenetic form of this disorder, these factors may trigger symptoms in people with an underlying mutation in SCN5A or another gene."
838,Is Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy inherited ?,"How is progressive osseous heteroplasia inherited? This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. People normally inherit one copy of each gene from their mother and one copy from their father. For most genes, both copies are active, or ""turned on,"" in all cells. For a small subset of genes, however, only one of the two copies is active. For some of these genes, only the copy inherited from a person's father (the paternal copy) is active, while for other genes, only the copy inherited from a person's mother (the maternal copy) is active. These differences in gene activation based on the gene's parent of origin are caused by a phenomenon called genomic imprinting. The GNAS gene has a complex genomic imprinting pattern. In some cells of the body the maternal copy of the gene is active, while in others the paternal copy is active. Progressive osseous heteroplasia occurs when mutations affect the paternal copy of the gene. Thus, progressive heteroplasia is usually inherited from the father."
839,Is hereditary spherocytosis inherited ?,"In about 75 percent of cases, hereditary spherocytosis is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  This condition can also be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
840,What is (are) Silicosis ?,"Silicosis is a respiratory disease caused by breathing in (inhaling) silica dust. There are three types of silicosis: Simple chronic silicosis, the most common type of silicosis, results from long-term exposure (usually more than 20 years) to low amounts of silica dust. Simple chronic silicosis may cause people to have difficulty breathing.  Accelerated silicosis occurs after 5 to 15 years of exposure of higher levels of silica. Swelling of the lungs and other symptoms occur faster in this type of silicosis than in the simple chronic form.  Acute silicosis results from short-term exposure (weeks or months) of large amounts of silica. The lungs become very inflamed and can fill with fluid, causing severe shortness of breath and low blood oxygen levels. A cough, weight loss, and fatigue may also be present. Acute silicosis progresses rapidly and can be fatal within months.  People who work in jobs where they are exposed to silica dust (mining, quarrying, construction, sand blasting, stone cutting) are at risk of developing this condition."
841,What causes Hypotension ?,"Conditions or factors that disrupt the body's ability to control blood pressure cause hypotension. The different types of hypotension have different causes.
                
Orthostatic Hypotension
                
Orthostatic hypotension has many causes. Sometimes two or more factors combine to cause this type of low blood pressure.
                
Dehydration (de-hi-DRA-shun) is the most common cause of orthostatic hypotension. Dehydration occurs if the body loses more water than it takes in.
                
You may become dehydrated if you don't drink enough fluids or if you sweat a lot during physical activity. Fever, vomiting, and severe diarrhea also can cause dehydration.
                
Orthostatic hypotension also may occur during pregnancy, but it usually goes away after birth.
                
Because an older body doesn't manage changes in blood pressure as well as a younger body, getting older also can lead to this type of hypotension.
                
Postprandial hypotension (a type of orthostatic hypotension) mostly affects older adults. Postprandial hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure after a meal.
                
Certain medical conditions can raise your risk of orthostatic hypotension, including:
                
Heart conditions, such as heart attack, heart valve disease, bradycardia (a very low heart rate), and heart failure. These conditions prevent the heart from pumping enough blood to the body.
                
Anemia.
                
Severe infections.
                
Endocrine conditions, such as thyroid disorders, Addison's disease, low blood sugar, and diabetes.
                
Central nervous system disorders, such as Parkinson's disease.
                
Pulmonary embolism.
                
Some medicines for high blood pressure and heart disease can raise your risk of orthostatic hypotension. These medicines include:
                
Diuretics, also called ""water pills""
                
Calcium channel blockers
                
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors
                
Angiotensin II receptor blockers
                
Nitrates
                
Beta blockers
                
Medicines for conditions such as anxiety, depression, erectile dysfunction, and central nervous system disorders also can increase your risk of orthostatic hypotension.
                
Other substances, when taken with high blood pressure medicines, also can lead to orthostatic hypotension. These substances include alcohol, barbiturates, and some prescription and over-the-counter medicines.
                
Finally, other factors or conditions that can trigger orthostatic hypotension include being out in the heat or being immobile for a long time. ""Immobile"" means you can't move around very much.
                
Neurally Mediated Hypotension
                
Neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) occurs when the brain and heart don't communicate with each other properly.
                
For example, when you stand for a long time, blood begins to pool in your legs. This causes your blood pressure to drop. In NMH, the body mistakenly tells the brain that blood pressure is high. In response, the brain slows the heart rate. This makes blood pressure drop even more, causing dizziness and other symptoms.
                
Severe Hypotension Linked to Shock
                
Many factors and conditions can cause severe hypotension linked to shock. Some of these factors also can cause orthostatic hypotension. In shock, though, blood pressure drops very low and doesn't return to normal on its own.
                
Shock is an emergency and must be treated right away. If a person has signs or symptoms of shock, call 911.
                
Some severe infections can cause shock. This is known as septic shock. It can occur if bacteria enter the bloodstream. The bacteria release a toxin (poison) that leads to a dangerous drop in blood pressure.
                
A severe loss of blood or fluids from the body also can cause shock. This is known as hypovolemic (HI-po-vo-LE-mik) shock. Hypovolemic shock can happen as a result of:
                
Major external bleeding (for example, from a severe cut or injury)
                
Major internal bleeding (for example, from a ruptured blood vessel or injury that causes bleeding inside the body)
                
Major loss of body fluids from severe burns
                
Severe swelling of the pancreas (an organ that produces enzymes and hormones, such as insulin)
                
Severe diarrhea
                
Severe kidney disease
                
Overuse of diuretics
                
A major decrease in the heart's ability to pump blood also can cause shock. This is known as cardiogenic (KAR-de-o-JEN-ik) shock.
                
A heart attack, pulmonary embolism, or an ongoing arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah) that disrupts heart function can cause this type of shock.
                
A sudden and extreme relaxation of the arteries linked to a drop in blood pressure also can cause shock. This is known as vasodilatory (VA-so-DI-la-tory) shock. It can occur due to:
                
A severe head injury
                
A reaction to certain medicines
                
Liver failure
                
Poisoning
                
A severe allergic reaction (called anaphylactic (AN-a-fi-LAK-tik) shock)"
842,What are the treatments for Lennox-Gastaut syndrome ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome:  - Cleveland Clinic  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epileptic encephalopathy Lennox-Gastaut type  - National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke: Diagnosis and Treatment of Epilepsy  - News Release: FDA Approves New Drug to Treat Severe Form of Epilepsy (U.S. Food and Drug Administration, November 20, 2008)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
843,How many people are affected by anencephaly ?,"Anencephaly is one of the most common types of neural tube defect, affecting about 1 in 1,000 pregnancies. However, most of these pregnancies end in miscarriage, so the prevalence of this condition in newborns is much lower. An estimated 1 in 10,000 infants in the United States is born with anencephaly."
844,What is the outlook for Tabes Dorsalis ?,"If left untreated, tabes dorsalis can lead to paralysis, dementia, and blindness. Existing nerve damage cannot be reversed."
845,What are the genetic changes related to molybdenum cofactor deficiency ?,"Molybdenum cofactor deficiency is caused by mutations in the MOCS1, MOCS2, or GPHN gene. There are three forms of the disorder, named types A, B, and C (or complementation groups A, B, and C). The forms have the same signs and symptoms but are distinguished by their genetic cause: MOCS1 gene mutations cause type A, MOCS2 gene mutations cause type B, and GPHN gene mutations cause type C. The proteins produced from each of these genes are involved in the formation (biosynthesis) of a molecule called molybdenum cofactor. Molybdenum cofactor, which contains the element molybdenum, is essential to the function of several enzymes. These enzymes help break down (metabolize) different substances in the body, some of which are toxic if not metabolized.  Mutations in the MOCS1, MOCS2, or GPHN gene reduce or eliminate the function of the associated protein, which impairs molybdenum cofactor biosynthesis. Without the cofactor, the metabolic enzymes that rely on it cannot function.  The resulting loss of enzyme activity leads to buildup of certain chemicals, including sulfite, S-sulfocysteine, xanthine, and hypoxanthine (which can be identified in urine), and low levels of uric acid in the blood. Sulfite, which is normally broken down by one of the molybdenum cofactor-dependent enzymes, is toxic, especially to the brain. Researchers suggest that damage caused by the abnormally high levels of sulfite (and possibly other chemicals) leads to encephalopathy, seizures, and the other features of molybdenum cofactor deficiency."
846,Is dopa-responsive dystonia inherited ?,"When dopa-responsive dystonia is caused by mutations in the GCH1 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Some people who inherit the altered GCH1 gene never develop features of dopa-responsive dystonia. (This situation is known as reduced penetrance.) It is unclear why some people with a mutated gene develop the disease and other people with a mutated gene do not. For unknown reasons, dopa-responsive dystonia caused by mutations in the GCH1 gene affects females two to four times more often than males.  When TH gene mutations are responsible for causing dopa-responsive dystonia, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When dopa-responsive dystonia is caused by mutations in the SPR gene, it can have either an autosomal recessive or, less commonly, an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance."
847,What are the symptoms of Fibrous dysplasia ?,"What are the symptoms of fibrous dysplasia? Fibrous dysplasia may cause no symptoms, mild symptoms, or severe symptoms. The most common symptoms are bone pain, bone deformities, fractures, and skin pigmentation differences (light brown spots on the skin). The problems that a person experiences depend on the specific bone(s) affected. For example, if the legs are of different lengths, they might limp when they walk; if the bones in the sinuses are affected, chronic sinus congestion may be a present. In rare cases, fibrous dysplasia is associated with abnormalities in the hormone-producing glands of the endocrine system. This may lead to precocious puberty, hyperthyroidism (excess thyroid hormone production), excess growth hormone (gigantism or acromegaly), and/or excess cortisol production (Cushing syndrome). If the face or skull bones are affected, hearing or vision loss may occur."
848,What to do for Anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease ?,"- Anemia is a condition in which the body has fewer red blood cells than normal. Red blood cells carry oxygen to tissues and organs throughout the body and enable them to use energy from food.  - Anemia commonly occurs in people with chronic kidney disease (CKD)the permanent, partial loss of kidney function. Most people who have total loss of kidney function, or kidney failure, have anemia.  - When kidneys are diseased or damaged, they do not make enough erythropoietin (EPO). As a result, the bone marrow makes fewer red blood cells, causing anemia.  - Other common causes of anemia in people with kidney disease include blood loss from hemodialysis and low levels of the following nutrients found in food:      - iron    - vitamin B12    - folic acid    - The first step in treating anemia is raising low iron levels.  - If blood tests indicate kidney disease as the most likely cause of anemia, treatment can include injections of a genetically engineered form of EPO.  - Many people with kidney disease need iron supplements and EPO to raise their red blood cell count to a level that will reduce the need for red blood cell transfusions.  - A health care provider may suggest vitamin B12 and folic acid supplements for some people with CKD and anemia.  - A health care provider may advise people with kidney disease who have anemia caused by iron, vitamin B12, or folic acid deficiencies to include sources of these nutrients in their diets."
849,How to diagnose Parkinson disease ?,"How is Parkinson disease diagnosed? There are currently no blood or laboratory tests that have been proven to help diagnose sporadic cases of Parkinson disease. The diagnosis is generally made after careful evaluation of medical history, current symptoms, and exclusion of other conditions. The clinical findings of tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia are highly suggestive of Parkinson disease. The genetic cause of some forms of Parkinson disease has been identified. In those cases, genetic testing may be utilized to identify affected family members."
850,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
851,What are the treatments for hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Neuralgic Amyotrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
852,how is botulism diagnosed?,"Physicians may consider the diagnosis if the patient's history and physical examination suggest botulism. However, these clues are usually not enough to allow a diagnosis of botulism. Other diseases such as Guillain-Barré syndrome, stroke, and myasthenia gravis can appear similar to botulism, and special tests may be needed to exclude these other conditions. These tests may include a brain scan, spinal fluid examination, nerve conduction test (electromyography, or EMG), and a tensilon test for myasthenia gravis. Tests for botulinum toxin and for bacteria that cause botulism can be performed at some state health department laboratories and at CDC."
853,What is (are) Benign rolandic epilepsy (BRE) ?,"Benign rolandic epilepsy is the most common form of childhood epilepsy.  It is referred to as ""benign"" because most children outgrow the condition by puberty, usually by 14 years of age.  This form of epilepsy is characterized by seizures involving the part of the frontal lobe of the brain called the rolandic area. The seizures associated with this condition typically occur during the nighttime.  Treatment is usually not prescribed, since the condition tends to disappear by puberty."
854,What are the symptoms of Steatocystoma multiplex with natal teeth ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Steatocystoma multiplex with natal teeth? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Steatocystoma multiplex with natal teeth. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Neoplasm of the skin 90% Hypermelanotic macule 50% Nephrolithiasis 50% Recurrent cutaneous abscess formation 50% Congenital, generalized hypertrichosis 7.5% Abnormality of the nail - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Natal tooth - Steatocystoma multiplex - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
855,What is (are) acute promyelocytic leukemia ?,"Acute promyelocytic leukemia is a form of acute myeloid leukemia, a cancer of the blood-forming tissue (bone marrow). In normal bone marrow, hematopoietic stem cells produce red blood cells (erythrocytes) that carry oxygen, white blood cells (leukocytes) that protect the body from infection, and platelets (thrombocytes) that are involved in blood clotting. In acute promyelocytic leukemia, immature white blood cells called promyelocytes accumulate in the bone marrow. The overgrowth of promyelocytes leads to a shortage of normal white and red blood cells and platelets in the body, which causes many of the signs and symptoms of the condition.  People with acute promyelocytic leukemia are especially susceptible to developing bruises, small red dots under the skin (petechiae), nosebleeds, bleeding from the gums, blood in the urine (hematuria), or excessive menstrual bleeding. The abnormal bleeding and bruising occur in part because of the low number of platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenia) and also because the cancerous cells release substances that cause excessive bleeding.  The low number of red blood cells (anemia) can cause people with acute promyelocytic leukemia to have pale skin (pallor) or excessive tiredness (fatigue). In addition, affected individuals may heal slowly from injuries or have frequent infections due to the loss of normal white blood cells that fight infection. Furthermore, the leukemic cells can spread to the bones and joints, which may cause pain in those areas. Other general signs and symptoms may occur as well, such as fever, loss of appetite, and weight loss.  Acute promyelocytic leukemia is most often diagnosed around age 40, although it can be diagnosed at any age."
856,What are the treatments for Gastritis ?,"Health care providers treat gastritis with medications to
                
- reduce the amount of acid in the stomach  - treat the underlying cause
                
Reduce the Amount of Acid in the Stomach
                
The stomach lining of a person with gastritis may have less protection from acidic digestive juice. Reducing acid can promote healing of the stomach lining. Medications that reduce acid include
                
- antacids, such as Alka-Seltzer, Maalox, Mylanta, Rolaids, and Riopan. Many brands use different combinations of three basic saltsmagnesium, aluminum, and calciumalong with hydroxide or bicarbonate ions to neutralize stomach acid. Antacids, however, can have side effects. Magnesium salt can lead to diarrhea, and aluminum salt can cause constipation. Magnesium and aluminum salts are often combined in a single product to balance these effects. Calcium carbonate antacids, such as Tums, Titralac, and Alka-2, can cause constipation.  - H2 blockers, such as cimetidine (Tagamet HB), famotidine (Pepcid AC), nizatidine (Axid AR), and ranitidine (Zantac 75). H2 blockers decrease acid production. They are available in both over-the-counter and prescription strengths.  - proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) include omeprazole (Prilosec, Zegerid), lansoprazole (Prevacid), dexlansoprazole (Dexilant), pantoprazole (Protonix), rabeprazole (AcipHex), and esomeprazole (Nexium). PPIs decrease acid production more effectively than H2 blockers. All of these medications are available by prescription. Omeprazole and lansoprazole are also available in over-the-counter strength.
                
Treat the Underlying Cause
                
Depending on the cause of gastritis, a health care provider may recommend additional treatments.
                
- Treating H. pylori infection with antibiotics is important, even if a person does not have symptoms from the infection. Curing the infection often cures the gastritis and decreases the chance of developing complications, such as peptic ulcer disease, MALT lymphoma, and gastric cancer.  - Avoiding the cause of reactive gastritis can provide some people with a cure. For example, if prolonged NSAID use is the cause of the gastritis, a health care provider may advise the patient to stop taking the NSAIDs, reduce the dose, or change pain medications.  - Health care providers may prescribe medications to prevent or treat stress gastritis in a patient who is critically ill or injured. Medications to protect the stomach lining include sucralfate (Carafate), H2 blockers, and PPIs. Treating the underlying illness or injury most often cures stress gastritis.  - Health care providers may treat people with pernicious anemia due to autoimmune atrophic gastritis with vitamin B12 injections."
857,What are the treatments for Dysgraphia ?,Treatment for dysgraphia varies and may include treatment for motor disorders to help control writing movements. Other treatments may address impaired memory or other neurological problems. Some physicians recommend that individuals with dysgraphia use computers to avoid the problems of handwriting.
858,What is (are) Your Guide to Diabetes: Type 1 and Type 2 ?,"Diabetes is when your blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is too high. Blood glucose is the main type of sugar found in your blood and your main source of energy. Glucose comes from the food you eat and is also made in your liver and muscles. Your blood carries glucose to all of your bodys cells to use for energy.
                
Your pancreasan organ, located between your stomach and spine, that helps with digestionreleases a hormone it makes, called insulin, into your blood. Insulin helps your blood carry glucose to all your bodys cells. Sometimes your body doesnt make enough insulin or the insulin doesnt work the way it should. Glucose then stays in your blood and doesnt reach your cells. Your blood glucose levels get too high and can cause diabetes or prediabetes.
                
Over time, having too much glucose in your blood can cause health problems.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the the words in bold type."
859,"What are the symptoms of Preaxial deficiency, postaxial polydactyly and hypospadias ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Preaxial deficiency, postaxial polydactyly and hypospadias? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Preaxial deficiency, postaxial polydactyly and hypospadias. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 90% Postaxial hand polydactyly 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Short hallux 90% Aplastic/hypoplastic toenail 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Glandular hypospadias - Short 2nd toe - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
860,What are the symptoms of Townes-Brocks syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Townes-Brocks syndrome? Townes-Brocks syndrome is characterized by an obstruction of the anal opening (imperforate anus), abnormally shaped ears, and hand malformations that most often affect the thumbs. Most people with this condition have at least two of these three major features. Other possible signs and symptoms include kidney abnormalities, mild to profound sensorineural and/or conductive hearing loss, heart defects, and genital malformations. These features vary among affected individuals - even among those within the same family. Intellectual disability or learning problems have also been reported in about 10 percent of people with Townes-Brocks syndrome. Visit GeneReviews for more detailed information about the signs and symptoms of Townes-Brocks syndrome.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Townes-Brocks syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) External ear malformation 90% Preauricular skin tag 90% Preaxial hand polydactyly 90% Triphalangeal thumb 90% Urogenital fistula 90% Camptodactyly of toe 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th toe 50% Constipation 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Ectopic anus 50% Hearing impairment 50% Microtia 50% Pes planus 50% Preauricular pit 50% Renal insufficiency 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Anal atresia 47% 2-4 finger syndactyly 7.5% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Abnormality of the pulmonary valve 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Abnormality of the tragus 7.5% Abnormality of the vagina 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Arnold-Chiari malformation 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Bifid scrotum 7.5% Blepharophimosis 7.5% Bowel incontinence 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Chorioretinal coloboma 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Cranial nerve paralysis 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Epibulbar dermoid 7.5% Facial asymmetry 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Iris coloboma 7.5% Lower limb asymmetry 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Preaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Renal dysplasia 7.5% Renal hypoplasia 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Split foot 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% Ulnar deviation of finger 7.5% Vesicoureteral reflux 7.5% Visual impairment 7.5% Wide mouth 7.5% Duane anomaly 5% 2-3 toe syndactyly - 3-4 finger syndactyly - 3-4 toe syndactyly - Anal stenosis - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the 3rd toe - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bifid uterus - Broad thumb - Duodenal atresia - Gastroesophageal reflux - Hypospadias - Intellectual disability - Macrotia - Metatarsal synostosis - Microcephaly - Overfolding of the superior helices - Partial duplication of thumb phalanx - Pseudoepiphyses of second metacarpal - Rectoperineal fistula - Rectovaginal fistula - Short metatarsal - Stahl ear - Umbilical hernia - Urethral valve - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
861,How many people are affected by Aicardi syndrome ?,"Aicardi syndrome is a very rare disorder. It occurs in about 1 in 105,000 to 167,000 newborns in the United States. Researchers estimate that there are approximately 4,000 affected individuals worldwide."
862,What are the treatments for craniometaphyseal dysplasia ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of craniometaphyseal dysplasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Craniometaphyseal Dysplasia, Autosomal Dominant  - Genetic Testing Registry: Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal dominant  - Genetic Testing Registry: Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal recessive type  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Facial Paralysis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
863,Who is at risk for Colorectal Cancer? ?,"Scientists don't know exactly what causes colorectal cancer, but they have been able to identify some risk factors for the disease. A risk factor is anything that increases your chances of getting a disease. Studies show that the following risk factors may increase a person's chances of developing colorectal cancer: age, polyps, personal history, family history, and ulcerative colitis. Age Colorectal cancer is more likely to occur as people get older. It is more common in people over the age of 50, but younger people can get it, too. In rare cases, it can occur in adolescence. Polyps Polyps are benign, or non-cancerous, growths on the inner wall of the colon and rectum. They are fairly common in people over age 50. Some types of polyps increase a person's risk of developing colorectal cancer. Not all polyps become cancerous, but nearly all colon cancers start as polyps. Diet The link between diet and colorectal cancer is not firmly established. There is evidence that smoking cigarettes and drinking 3 or more alcoholic beverages daily may be associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer. Personal History Research shows that women with a history of cancer of the ovary, uterus, or breast have a somewhat increased chance of developing colorectal cancer. Also, a person who has already had colorectal cancer may develop this disease a second time. Family History The parents, siblings, and children of a person who has had colorectal cancer are somewhat more likely to develop this type of cancer themselves. This is especially true if the relative had the cancer at a young age. If many family members have had colorectal cancer, the chances increase even more. Ulcerative colitis Ulcerative colitis is a condition in which there is a chronic break in the lining of the colon. Having this condition increases a person's chance of developing colorectal cancer. Genetic Mutations Researchers have identified genetic mutations, or abnormalities, that may be linked to the development of colon cancer. They are working to unravel the exact ways these genetic changes occur. Recent results from The Cancer Genome Atlas study of colorectal cancer point to several genes (BRAF and EGRF among others) that may increase risk. If You Have Risk Factors If you have one or more of these risk factors, it doesn't mean you will get colorectal cancer. It just increases the chances. You may wish to talk to your doctor about these risk factors. He or she may be able to suggest ways you can reduce your chances of developing colorectal cancer and plan an appropriate schedule for checkups."
864,What are the symptoms of Van Regemorter Pierquin Vamos syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Van Regemorter Pierquin Vamos syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Van Regemorter Pierquin Vamos syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eyelashes 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Broad forehead 90% Hypertelorism 90% Short distal phalanx of finger 90% Short philtrum 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 50% Abnormality of the cardiac septa 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Abnormality of the neck 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Anomalous pulmonary venous return 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Downturned corners of mouth 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Hydrocephalus 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Impaired pain sensation 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Narrow mouth 50% Optic atrophy 50% Patent ductus arteriosus 50% Polyhydramnios 50% Premature birth 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 50% Wormian bones 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
865,What causes What I need to know about Diarrhea ?,"Causes of diarrhea include
                
- bacteria from contaminated food or water  - viruses that cause illnesses such as the flu  - parasites, which are tiny organisms found in contaminated food or water  - medicines such as antibiotics  - problems digesting certain foods  - diseases that affect the stomach, small intestine, or colon, such as Crohns disease  - problems with how the colon functions, caused by disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome
                
Sometimes no cause can be found. As long as diarrhea goes away within 1 to 2 days, finding the cause is not usually necessary."
866,How many people are affected by ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency ?,"Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency is believed to occur in approximately 1 in every 80,000 people."
867,What are the treatments for Fraser syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Fraser syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cryptophthalmos syndrome  - University of Arizona College of Medicine: Cryptophthalmos   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
868,What is (are) Friedreich ataxia ?,"Friedreich ataxia is an inherited condition that affects the nervous system and causes movement problems. People with this condition develop impaired muscle coordination (ataxia) that worsens over time. Other features include the gradual loss of strength and sensation in the arms and legs, muscle stiffness (spasticity), and impaired speech. Many individuals have a form of heart disease called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Some develop diabetes, impaired vision, hearing loss, or an abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis). Most people with Friedreich ataxia begin to experience the signs and symptoms around puberty. This condition is caused by mutations in the FXN gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern."
869,How many people are affected by Porphyria ?,"The exact rates of porphyria are unknown and vary around the world. For example, porphyria cutanea tarda is most common in the United States, and variegate porphyria is most common in South America.1"
870,What is (are) X-linked creatine deficiency ?,"X-linked creatine deficiency is an inherited disorder that primarily affects the brain. People with this disorder have intellectual disability, which can range from mild to severe, and delayed speech development. Some affected individuals develop behavioral disorders such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder or autistic behaviors that affect communication and social interaction. They may also experience seizures. Children with X-linked creatine deficiency may experience slow growth and exhibit delayed development of motor skills such as sitting and walking. Affected individuals tend to tire easily.  A small number of people with X-linked creatine deficiency have additional signs and symptoms including abnormal heart rhythms, an unusually small head (microcephaly), or distinctive facial features such as a broad forehead and a flat or sunken appearance of the middle of the face (midface hypoplasia)."
871,What is (are) Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome ?,"Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome is a condition that affects many parts of the body. The major features of this disorder include a characteristic facial appearance, delayed growth and development, intellectual disability, and seizures.  Almost everyone with this disorder has distinctive facial features, including a broad, flat nasal bridge and a high forehead. This combination is described as a ""Greek warrior helmet"" appearance. The eyes are widely spaced and may be protruding. Other characteristic facial features include a shortened distance between the nose and upper lip (a short philtrum), a downturned mouth, a small chin (micrognathia), and poorly formed ears with small holes (pits) or flaps of skin (tags). Additionally, affected individuals may have asymmetrical facial features and an unusually small head (microcephaly).  People with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome experience delayed growth and development. Slow growth begins before birth, and affected infants tend to have problems feeding and gaining weight (failure to thrive). They also have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and underdeveloped muscles. Motor skills such as sitting, standing, and walking are significantly delayed. Most children and adults with this disorder also have short stature.  Intellectual disability ranges from mild to severe in people with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome. Compared to people with other forms of intellectual disability, their socialization skills are strong, while verbal communication and language skills tend to be weaker. Most affected children also have seizures, which may be resistant to treatment. Seizures tend to disappear with age.  Additional features of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome include skin changes such as mottled or dry skin, skeletal abnormalities such as abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis and kyphosis), dental problems including missing teeth, and an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate) and/or in the lip (cleft lip). Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome can also cause abnormalities of the eyes, heart, genitourinary tract, and brain.  A condition called Pitt-Rogers-Danks syndrome has features that overlap with those of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome. Researchers now recognize that these two conditions are actually part of a single syndrome with variable signs and symptoms."
872,What is (are) beta-mannosidosis ?,"Beta-mannosidosis is a rare inherited disorder affecting the way certain sugar molecules are processed in the body.  Signs and symptoms of beta-mannosidosis vary widely in severity, and the age of onset ranges between infancy and adolescence. Almost all individuals with beta-mannosidosis experience intellectual disability, and some have delayed motor development and seizures. Affected individuals may be extremely introverted, prone to depression, or have behavioral problems such as hyperactivity, impulsivity or aggression.  People with beta-mannosidosis may experience an increased risk of respiratory and ear infections, hearing loss, speech impairment, swallowing difficulties, poor muscle tone (hypotonia), and reduced sensation or other nervous system abnormalities in the extremities (peripheral neuropathy). They may also exhibit distinctive facial features and clusters of enlarged blood vessels forming small, dark red spots on the skin (angiokeratomas)."
873,What is (are) Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy ?,"Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) is an uncommon, inherited form of epilepsy. Signs and symptoms include seizures that usually occur at night during sleep. The seizures that occur in people with ADNFLE can last from a few seconds to a few minutes, and can vary from causing simple arousal from sleep to severe, dramatic muscle spasm events. Some people with ADNFLE also have seizures during the day. Some episodes may be misdiagnosed as nightmares, night terrors, or panic attacks. The onset of ADNFLE ranges from infancy to adulthood, but most cases begin in childhood. Episodes tend to become milder and less frequent with age. ADNFLE is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and may be caused by a mutation in any of several genes. In many cases, the genetic cause remains unknown. Seizures can usually be controlled with antiseizure medications."
874,"What are the symptoms of Hypocalcemia, autosomal dominant ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Hypocalcemia, autosomal dominant? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hypocalcemia, autosomal dominant. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Behavioral abnormality 90% EMG abnormality 90% Flexion contracture 90% Hypercalciuria 90% Hypocalcemia 90% Involuntary movements 90% Paresthesia 90% Abdominal pain 50% Abnormal pattern of respiration 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Alopecia 50% Arrhythmia 50% Dry skin 50% Hyperphosphatemia 50% Hypotension 50% Nephrolithiasis 50% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Eczema 7.5% Increased intracranial pressure 7.5% Irregular hyperpigmentation 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
875,What causes Menetrier disease ?,"What causes Mntrier disease? The exact cause of Mntrier disease is unknown.  However, it has been associated with cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in children and Heliobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in adults. In addition, some have suggested that overexpression of a type of growth factor called the transforming growth factor-, which is found in a specific part of the stomach, the superficial gastric epithelium, might play a role."
876,What are the symptoms of NADH cytochrome B5 reductase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of NADH cytochrome B5 reductase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for NADH cytochrome B5 reductase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cyanosis - Exertional dyspnea - Growth delay - Headache - Hypertonia - Intellectual disability - Methemoglobinemia - Microcephaly - Opisthotonus - Polycythemia - Strabismus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
877,What are the symptoms of Prieto X-linked mental retardation syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Prieto X-linked mental retardation syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Prieto X-linked mental retardation syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the nose 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Gait disturbance 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Ventriculomegaly 90% Abnormal dermatoglyphics 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the earlobes 50% Cryptorchidism 50% High forehead 50% Hypertelorism 50% Increased number of teeth 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Optic atrophy 50% Patellar dislocation 50% Sacral dimple 50% Seizures 50% Abnormality of the pupil 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Delayed skeletal maturation 7.5% Epicanthus 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% 11 pairs of ribs - Abnormality of the skin - Abnormality of the teeth - Cerebral atrophy - Clinodactyly - Coxa valga - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - Low-set ears - Osteoporosis - Patellar subluxation - Prominent nose - Radial deviation of finger - Retrognathia - Talipes equinovarus - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
878,What is (are) Stomach Cancer ?,"The stomach is an organ between the esophagus and the small intestine. It mixes food with stomach acid and helps digest protein. Stomach cancer mostly affects older people - two-thirds of people who have it are over age 65. Your risk of getting it is also higher if you       - Have had a Helicobacter pylori infection    - Have had stomach inflammation    - Are a man    - Eat lots of salted, smoked, or pickled foods     - Smoke cigarettes     - Have a family history of stomach cancer       It is hard to diagnose stomach cancer in its early stages. Indigestion and stomach discomfort can be symptoms of early cancer, but other problems can cause the same symptoms. In advanced cases, there may be blood in your stool, vomiting, unexplained weight loss, jaundice, or trouble swallowing. Doctors diagnose stomach cancer with a physical exam, blood and imaging tests, an endoscopy, and a biopsy.    Because it is often found late, it can be hard to treat stomach cancer. Treatment options include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation or a combination.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
879,What is (are) Urinary Tract Infections ?,"Urinary tract infections (UTI) are a common bladder problem, especially as people age. UTIs are the second most common type of infection in the body. Each year, UTIs cause more than 8 million visits to health care providers. UTIs can happen anywhere in the urinary system (which includes the kidneys, bladder, and urethra). But UTIs are most common in the bladder. A UTI in the bladder is called cystitis. Infections in the bladder can spread to the kidneys. A UTI in the kidneys is called pyelonephritis. Sometimes, a UTI can also develop in the urethra, but this is less common. A UTI in the urethra is called urethritis. Learn more about urinary tract infections in adults."
880,What are the treatments for Diabetic Kidney Disease ?,"People with diabetes should work with their health care team to prevent or manage CKD through the following steps:
                
- measure A1C levelsa blood test that provides information about a persons average blood glucose levels for the previous 3 months at least twice a year and keep A1C levels below 7 percent  - learn about insulin injections, diabetes medications, meal planning, physical activity, and blood glucose monitoring  - find out whether protein, salt, or liquid should be limited in the diet  - see a registered dietitian to help with meal planning  - check blood pressure every visit with a health care provider or at least two to four times a year  - learn about possible benefits from taking an ACE inhibitor or an ARB if a person has high blood pressure  - measure eGFR at least once a year to check kidney function  - get the amount of protein in the urine tested at least once a year to check for kidney damage"
881,Who is at risk for Coronary Heart Disease? ?,"In the United States, coronary heart disease (CHD) is a leading cause of death for both men and women. Each year, about 370,000 Americans die from coronary heart disease.
                
Certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for CHD. The more risk factors you have, the more likely you are to develop the disease.
                
You can control many risk factors, which may help prevent or delay CHD.
                
Major Risk Factors
                
Unhealthy blood cholesterol levels. This includes high LDL cholesterol (sometimes called bad cholesterol) and low HDL cholesterol (sometimes called good cholesterol).
                
High blood pressure. Blood pressure is considered high if it stays at or above 140/90 mmHg over time. If you have diabetes or chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure is defined as 130/80 mmHg or higher. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Smoking. Smoking can damage and tighten blood vessels, lead to unhealthy cholesterol levels, and raise blood pressure. Smoking also can limit how much oxygen reaches the body's tissues.
                
Insulin resistance. This condition occurs if the body can't use its own insulin properly. Insulin is a hormone that helps move blood sugar into cells where it's used for energy. Insulin resistance may lead to diabetes.
                
Diabetes. With this disease, the body's blood sugar level is too high because the body doesn't make enough insulin or doesn't use its insulin properly.
                
Overweight or obesity. The terms overweight and obesity refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is the name for a group of risk factors that raises your risk for CHD and other health problems, such as diabetes and stroke.
                
Lack of physical activity. Being physically inactive can worsen other risk factors for CHD, such as unhealthy blood cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, diabetes, and overweight or obesity.
                
Unhealthy diet. An unhealthy diet can raise your risk for CHD. Foods that are high in saturated and trans fats, cholesterol, sodium, and sugar can worsen other risk factors for CHD.
                
Older age. Genetic or lifestyle factors cause plaque to build up in your arteries as you age. In men, the risk for coronary heart disease increases starting at age 45. In women, the risk for coronary heart disease increases starting at age 55.
                
A family history of early coronary heart disease is a risk factor for developing coronary heart disease, specifically if a father or brother is diagnosed before age 55, or a mother or sister is diagnosed before age 65.
                
Although older age and a family history of early heart disease are risk factors, it doesn't mean that youll develop CHD if you have one or both. Controlling other risk factors often can lessen genetic influences and help prevent CHD, even in older adults.
                
Emerging Risk Factors
                
Researchers continue to study other possible risk factors for CHD.
                
High levels of a protein called C-reactive protein (CRP) in the blood may raise the risk of CHD and heart attack. High levels of CRP are a sign of inflammation in the body.
                
Inflammation is the body's response to injury or infection. Damage to the arteries' inner walls may trigger inflammation and help plaque grow.
                
Research is under way to find out whether reducing inflammation and lowering CRP levels also can reduce the risk of CHD and heart attack.
                
High levels of triglycerides in the blood also may raise the risk of CHD, especially in women. Triglycerides are a type of fat.
                
Other Risks Related to Coronary Heart Disease
                
Other conditions and factors also may contribute to CHD, including:
                
Sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Untreated sleep apnea can increase your risk for high blood pressure, diabetes, and even a heart attack or stroke.
                
Stress. Research shows that the most commonly reported ""trigger"" for a heart attack is an emotionally upsetting event, especially one involving anger.
                
Alcohol. Heavy drinking can damage the heart muscle and worsen other CHD risk factors. Men should have no more than two drinks containing alcohol a day. Women should have no more than one drink containing alcohol a day.
                
Preeclampsia. This condition can occur during pregnancy. The two main signs of preeclampsia are a rise in blood pressure and excess protein in the urine. Preeclampsia is linked to an increased lifetime risk of heart disease, including CHD, heart attack, heart failure, and high blood pressure.
                
For more detailed information, go to the Health Topics Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors article."
882,What is (are) Hashimoto's syndrome ?,"Hashimotos syndrome is a form of chronic inflammation that can damage the thyroid, reducing its ability to produce hormones (hypothyroidism). An early sign of the condition may be enlargement of the thyroid (called a goiter), which can potentially interfere with breathing or swallowing. Other signs and symptoms may include tiredness, weight gain, thin and dry hair, joint or muscle pain, constipation, cold intolerance, and/or a slowed heart rate. Affected women may have irregular menstrual periods or difficulty becoming pregnant. Hashimotos syndrome is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It is more common in women than in men, and it usually appears in mid-adulthood. The exact cause is unknown but it is thought to result from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Treatment is not always needed, but may include taking synthetic thyroid hormone."
883,What is (are) Dentinogenesis imperfecta ?,"Dentinogenesis imperfecta is a condition that results in issues with tooth development, causing the teeth to be translucent and discolored (most often a blue-gray or yellow-brown in color). Individuals with this disorder tend to have teeth that are weaker than normal which leads to increased wear, breakage, and loss of the teeth. This can affect both primary (baby) and permanent teeth. Dentinogenesis imperfecta is caused by mutations in the DSPP gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. There are three types of dentinogenesis imperfecta. Type I: occurs in people who have osteogenesis imperfecta, a genetic condition in which bones are brittle, causing them to break easily. Type II and type III: usually occur in people without another inherited disorder. Some families with type II also have progressive hearing loss. Type III was first identified in a population in Brandywine, Maryland. Some researchers believe that dentinogenesis imperfecta type II and type III, along with a similar condition called dentin dysplasia type II, are actually just different forms of a single disorder."
884,What is (are) lymphangioleiomyomatosis ?,"Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a condition that affects the lungs, the kidneys, and the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system consists of a network of vessels that transport lymph fluid and immune cells throughout the body.  LAM is found almost exclusively in women. It usually occurs as a feature of an inherited syndrome called tuberous sclerosis complex. When LAM occurs alone it is called isolated or sporadic LAM.  Signs and symptoms of LAM most often appear during a woman's thirties. Affected women have an overgrowth of abnormal smooth muscle-like cells (LAM cells) in the lungs, resulting in the formation of lung cysts and the destruction of normal lung tissue. They may also have an accumulation of fluid in the cavity around the lungs (chylothorax).  The lung abnormalities resulting from LAM may cause difficulty breathing (dyspnea), chest pain, and coughing, which may bring up blood (hemoptysis). Many women with this disorder have recurrent episodes of collapsed lung (spontaneous pneumothorax). The lung problems may be progressive and, without lung transplantation, may eventually lead to limitations in activities of daily living, the need for oxygen therapy, and respiratory failure. Although LAM cells are not considered cancerous, they may spread between tissues (metastasize). As a result, the condition may recur even after lung transplantation.  Women with LAM may develop cysts in the lymphatic vessels of the chest and abdomen. These cysts are called lymphangioleiomyomas. Affected women may also develop tumors called angiomyolipomas made up of LAM cells, fat cells, and blood vessels. Angiomyolipomas usually develop in the kidneys. Internal bleeding is a common complication of angiomyolipomas."
885,What is (are) Prostate Cancer ?,"Sometimes, cancer cells break away from the malignant tumor in the prostate and enter the bloodstream or the lymphatic system and travel to other organs in the body. When cancer spreads from its original location in the prostate to another part of the body such as the bone, it is called metastatic prostate cancer, not bone cancer. Doctors sometimes call this ""distant"" disease."
886,What are the treatments for Floating-Harbor syndrome ?,"How might Floating-Harbor syndrome be treated? Treatment for Floating-Harbor syndrome is symptomatic and supportive. For example, dental problems and cataracts may be surgically corrected and sign language and/or speech therapy may help with delays in expressive language. Additional management strategies may be obtained from the Floating Harbor Syndrome Support Group at: http://www.floatingharborsyndromesupport.com/ or 336-492-2641."
887,What are the treatments for ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Anophthalmos with limb anomalies   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
888,What is (are) Sjgren's Syndrome ?,"Sjgren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which immune cells attack and destroy the glands that produce tears and saliva. Sjgren's syndrome is also associated with rheumatic disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis. The hallmark symptoms of the disorder are dry mouth and dry eyes. In addition, Sjogren's syndrome may cause skin, nose, and vaginal dryness, and may affect other organs of the body including the kidneys, blood vessels, lungs, liver, pancreas, and brain.  Sjgren's syndrome affects 1-4 million people in the United States. Most people are more than 40 years old at the time of diagnosis. Women are 9 times more likely to have Sjgren's syndrome than men."
889,What is (are) Split hand foot malformation ?,"Split hand foot malformation (SHFM) is a type of birth defect that consists of missing digits (fingers and/or toes), a deep cleft down the center of the hand or foot, and fusion of remaining digits. The severity of this condition varies widely among affected individuals. SHFM is sometimes called ectrodactyly; however, this is a nonspecific term used to describe missing digits. SHFM may occur by itself (isolated) or it may be part of a syndrome with abnormalities in other parts of the body. At least six different forms of isolated SHFM have been described. Each type is associated with a different underlying genetic cause. SHFM1 has been linked to chromosome 7, and SHFM2 is linked to the X chromosome. SHFM3 is caused by a duplication of chromosome 10 at position 10q24. Changes (mutations) in the TP63 gene cause SHFM4. SHFM5 is linked to chromosome 2, and SHFM6 is caused by mutations in the WNT10B gene. SHFM may be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked manner."
890,What is (are) Hemorrhoids ?,"Hemorrhoids are swollen, inflamed veins around the anus or lower rectum. They are either inside the anus or under the skin around the anus. They often result from straining to have a bowel movement. Other factors include pregnancy, aging and chronic constipation or diarrhea.    Hemorrhoids are very common in both men and women. About half of all people have hemorrhoids by age 50. The most common symptom of hemorrhoids inside the anus is bright red blood covering the stool, on toilet paper or in the toilet bowl. Symptoms usually go away within a few days.    If you have rectal bleeding you should see a doctor. You need to make sure bleeding is not from a more serious condition such as colorectal or anal cancer. Treatment may include warm baths and a cream or other medicine. If you have large hemorrhoids, you may need surgery and other treatments.     NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
891,What are the treatments for Colorectal Cancer ?,"There are several treatment options for colorectal cancer, although most treatments begin with surgical removal of either the cancerous polyp or section of the colon. The choice of treatment depends on your age and general health, the stage of cancer, whether or not it has spread beyond the colon, and other factors. If tests show that you have cancer, you should talk with your doctor and make treatment decisions as soon as possible. Studies show that early treatment leads to better outcomes. Working With a Team of Specialists A team of specialists often treats people with cancer. The team will keep the primary doctor informed about the patient's progress. The team may include a medical oncologist who is a specialist in cancer treatment, a surgeon, a radiation oncologist who is a specialist in radiation therapy, and others. Before starting treatment, you may want another doctor to review the diagnosis and treatment plan. Some insurance companies require a second opinion. Others may pay for a second opinion if you request it. Clinical Trials for Colorectal Cancer Some colorectal cancer patients take part in studies of new treatments. These studies, called clinical trials, are designed to find out whether a new treatment is safe and effective. Often, clinical trials compare a new treatment with a standard one so that doctors can learn which is more effective. People with colorectal cancer who are interested in taking part in a clinical trial should talk with their doctor. The U.S. National Institutes of Health, through its National Library of Medicine and other Institutes, maintains a database of clinical trials at ClinicalTrials.gov. Click here to see a list of the current clinical trials on colorectal cancer. A separate window will open. Click the ""x"" in the upper right hand corner of the ""Clinical Trials"" window to return here."
892,What are the genetic changes related to Pitt-Hopkins syndrome ?,"Mutations in the TCF4 gene cause Pitt-Hopkins syndrome. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that attaches (binds) to other proteins and then binds to specific regions of DNA to help control the activity of many other genes. On the basis of its DNA binding and gene controlling activities, the TCF4 protein is known as a transcription factor. The TCF4 protein plays a role in the maturation of cells to carry out specific functions (cell differentiation) and the self-destruction of cells (apoptosis).  TCF4 gene mutations disrupt the protein's ability to bind to DNA and control the activity of certain genes. These disruptions, particularly the inability of the TCF4 protein to control the activity of genes involved in nervous system development and function, contribute to the signs and symptoms of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome. Furthermore, additional proteins interact with the TCF4 protein to carry out specific functions. When the TCF4 protein is nonfunctional, these other proteins are also unable to function normally. It is also likely that the loss of the normal proteins that are attached to the nonfunctional TCF4 proteins contribute to the features of this condition. The loss of one protein in particular, the ASCL1 protein, is thought to be associated with breathing problems in people with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome."
893,What are the treatments for myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Myostatin-Related Muscle Hypertrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myostatin-related muscle hypertrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
894,What causes Gum (Periodontal) Disease ?,Gum disease is caused by dental plaque -- a sticky film of bacteria that builds up on teeth. Regular brushing and flossing help get rid of plaque. But plaque that is not removed can harden and form tartar that brushing doesn't clean. Only a professional cleaning by a dentist or dental hygienist can remove tartar.
895,"What causes 47, XYY syndrome ?","What causes 47, XYY syndrome? 47,XYY syndrome is caused by the presence of an extra copy of the Y chromosome in each of a male's cells. This is typically due to a random event during the formation of a sperm cell in the father, usually before conception (fertilization of the egg). In this case, the father's two Y chromosomes do not separate when sperm cells are being made. If two Y chromosomes are present in a sperm that fertilizes an egg (with an X chromosome), the resulting embryo will be a male with an extra Y chromosome. It is also possible that a similar random event could occur very early in an embryo's development. It is not fully understood why an extra copy of the Y chromosome leads to an increased risk for the features associated with 47, XYY syndrome in some males. Importantly, there is nothing either parent can do (or not do) to cause or prevent 47, XYY syndrome."
896,How many people are affected by WAGR syndrome ?,"The prevalence of WAGR syndrome ranges from 1 in 500,000 to one million individuals. It is estimated that one-third of people with aniridia actually have WAGR syndrome. Approximately 7 in 1,000 cases of Wilms tumor can be attributed to WAGR syndrome."
897,What is (are) aspartylglucosaminuria ?,"Aspartylglucosaminuria is a condition that causes a progressive decline in mental functioning.  Infants with aspartylglucosaminuria appear healthy at birth, and development is typically normal throughout early childhood. The first sign of this condition, evident around the age of 2 or 3, is usually delayed speech. Mild intellectual disability then becomes apparent, and learning occurs at a slowed pace. Intellectual disability progressively worsens in adolescence. Most people with this disorder lose much of the speech they have learned, and affected adults usually have only a few words in their vocabulary. Adults with aspartylglucosaminuria may develop seizures or problems with movement.  People with this condition may also have bones that become progressively weak and prone to fracture (osteoporosis), an unusually large range of joint movement (hypermobility), and loose skin. Affected individuals tend to have a characteristic facial appearance that includes widely spaced eyes (ocular hypertelorism), small ears, and full lips. The nose is short and broad and the face is usually square-shaped. Children with this condition may be tall for their age, but lack of a growth spurt in puberty typically causes adults to be short. Affected children also tend to have frequent upper respiratory infections. Individuals with aspartylglucosaminuria usually survive into mid-adulthood."
898,What is (are) Stickler syndrome ?,"Stickler syndrome is a group of hereditary conditions characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities, hearing loss, and joint problems. These signs and symptoms vary widely among affected individuals.  A characteristic feature of Stickler syndrome is a somewhat flattened facial appearance. This appearance results from underdeveloped bones in the middle of the face, including the cheekbones and the bridge of the nose. A particular group of physical features called Pierre Robin sequence is also common in people with Stickler syndrome. Pierre Robin sequence includes an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate), a tongue that is placed further back than normal (glossoptosis), and a small lower jaw (micrognathia). This combination of features can lead to feeding problems and difficulty breathing.  Many people with Stickler syndrome have severe nearsightedness (high myopia). In some cases, the clear gel that fills the eyeball (the vitreous) has an abnormal appearance, which is noticeable during an eye examination. Other eye problems are also common, including increased pressure within the eye (glaucoma), clouding of the lens of the eyes (cataracts), and tearing of the lining of the eye (retinal detachment). These eye abnormalities cause impaired vision or blindness in some cases.  In people with Stickler syndrome, hearing loss varies in degree and may become more severe over time. The hearing loss may be sensorineural, meaning that it results from changes in the inner ear, or conductive, meaning that it is caused by abnormalities of the middle ear.  Most people with Stickler syndrome have skeletal abnormalities that affect the joints. The joints of affected children and young adults may be loose and very flexible (hypermobile), though joints become less flexible with age. Arthritis often appears early in life and may cause joint pain or stiffness. Problems with the bones of the spine (vertebrae) can also occur, including abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis or kyphosis) and flattened vertebrae (platyspondyly). These spinal abnormalities may cause back pain.  Researchers have described several types of Stickler syndrome, which are distinguished by their genetic causes and their patterns of signs and symptoms. In particular, the eye abnormalities and severity of hearing loss differ among the types. Type I has the highest risk of retinal detachment. Type II also includes eye abnormalities, but type III does not (and is often called non-ocular Stickler syndrome). Types II and III are more likely than type I to have significant hearing loss. Types IV, V, and VI are very rare and have each been diagnosed in only a few individuals.  A condition similar to Stickler syndrome, called Marshall syndrome, is characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities, hearing loss, and early-onset arthritis. Marshall syndrome can also include short stature. Some researchers have classified Marshall syndrome as a variant of Stickler syndrome, while others consider it to be a separate disorder."
899,What causes Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?,"The causes of PSC are not known. Genes, immune system problems, bacteria, and viruses may play roles in the development of the disease.
                
PSC is linked to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). About three out of four people with PSC have a type of IBD called ulcerative colitis. The link between PSC and IBD is not yet understood."
900,What is (are) Von Willebrand Disease ?,"Von Willebrand disease (VWD) is a bleeding disorder. It affects your blood's ability to clot. If your blood doesn't clot, you can have heavy, hard-to-stop bleeding after an injury. The bleeding can damage your internal organs. Rarely, the bleeding may even cause death.
                
In VWD, you either have low levels of a certain protein in your blood or the protein doesn't work well. The protein is called von Willebrand factor, and it helps your blood clot.
                
Normally, when one of your blood vessels is injured, you start to bleed. Small blood cell fragments called platelets (PLATE-lets) clump together to plug the hole in the blood vessel and stop the bleeding. Von Willebrand factor acts like glue to help the platelets stick together and form a blood clot.
                
Von Willebrand factor also carries clotting factor VIII (8), another important protein that helps your blood clot. Factor VIII is the protein that's missing or doesn't work well in people who have hemophilia, another bleeding disorder.
                
VWD is more common and usually milder than hemophilia. In fact, VWD is the most common inherited bleeding disorder. It occurs in about 1 out of every 100 to 1,000 people. VWD affects both males and females, while hemophilia mainly affects males.
                
Types of von Willebrand Disease
                
The three major types of VWD are called type 1, type 2, and type 3.
                
Type 1
                
People who have type 1 VWD have low levels of von Willebrand factor and may have low levels of factor VIII. Type 1 is the mildest and most common form of VWD. About 3 out of 4 people who have VWD have type 1.
                
Type 2
                
In type 2 VWD, the von Willebrand factor doesn't work well. Type 2 is divided into subtypes: 2A, 2B, 2M, and 2N. Different gene mutations (changes) cause each type, and each is treated differently. Thus, it's important to know the exact type of VWD that you have.
                
Type 3
                
People who have type 3 VWD usually have no von Willebrand factor and low levels of factor VIII. Type 3 is the most serious form of VWD, but it's very rare.
                
Overview
                
Most people who have VWD have type 1, a mild form. This type usually doesn't cause life-threatening bleeding. You may need treatment only if you have surgery, tooth extraction, or trauma. Treatment includes medicines and medical therapies.
                
Some people who have severe forms of VWD need emergency treatment to stop bleeding before it becomes life threatening.
                
Early diagnosis is important. With the proper treatment plan, even people who have type 3 VWD can live normal, active lives."
901,What are the genetic changes related to X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism ?,"Mutations in and near the TAF1 gene can cause X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism. The TAF1 gene provides instructions for making part of a protein called transcription factor IID (TFIID). This protein is active in cells and tissues throughout the body, where it plays an essential role in regulating the activity of most genes.  The TAF1 gene is part of a complex region of DNA known as the TAF1/DYT3 multiple transcript system. This region consists of short stretches of DNA from the TAF1 gene plus some extra segments of genetic material near the gene. These stretches of DNA can be combined in different ways to create various sets of instructions for making proteins. Researchers believe that some of these variations are critical for the normal function of nerve cells (neurons) in the brain.  Several changes in the TAF1/DYT3 multiple transcript system have been identified in people with X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism. Scientists are uncertain how these changes are related to the movement abnormalities characteristic of this disease. However, they suspect that the changes disrupt the regulation of critical genes in neurons. This defect leads to the eventual death of these cells, particularly in areas of the brain called the caudate nucleus and putamen. These regions are critical for normal movement, learning, and memory. It is unclear why the effects of changes in the TAF1/DYT3 multiple transcript system appear to be limited to dystonia and parkinsonism."
902,What are the symptoms of Diabetic Retinopathy ?,"At first, you will see a few specks of blood, or spots, ""floating"" in your vision. If spots occur, see your eye care professional as soon as possible. You may need treatment before more serious bleeding or hemorrhaging occurs. Hemorrhages tend to happen more than once, often during sleep. Sometimes, the spots clear without treatment, and you will see better. However, bleeding can reoccur and cause severely blurred vision. You need to be examined by your eye care professional at the first sign of blurred vision, before more bleeding occurs. If left untreated, proliferative retinopathy can cause severe vision loss and even blindness. Also, the earlier you receive treatment, the more likely treatment will be effective."
903,What are the genetic changes related to episodic ataxia ?,"Episodic ataxia can be caused by mutations in several genes that play important roles in the nervous system. Three of these genes, KCNA1, CACNA1A, and CACNB4, provide instructions for making proteins that are involved in the transport of charged atoms (ions) across cell membranes. The movement of these ions is critical for normal signaling between nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and other parts of the nervous system. Mutations in the KCNA1, CACNA1A, and CACNB4 genes are responsible for episodic ataxia types 1, 2, and 5, respectively.  Mutations in the SLC1A3 gene have been found to cause episodic ataxia type 6. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that transports a brain chemical (neurotransmitter) called glutamate. Neurotransmitters, including glutamate, allow neurons to communicate by relaying chemical signals from one neuron to another.  Researchers believe that mutations in the KCNA1, CACNA1A, CACNB4, and SLC1A3 genes alter the transport of ions and glutamate in the brain, which causes certain neurons to become overexcited and disrupts normal communication between these cells. Although changes in chemical signaling in the brain underlie the recurrent attacks seen in people with episodic ataxia, it is unclear how mutations in these genes cause the specific features of the disorder.  The genetic causes of episodic ataxia types 3, 4, and 7 have not been identified. Researchers are looking for additional genes that can cause episodic ataxia."
904,What causes Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ?,"What causes diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ? The exact underlying cause of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is poorly understood. However, several factors have been associated with an increased risk of developing the condition. For example, conditions that disturb cartilage metabolism (such as diabetes mellitus, acromegaly, or certain inherited connective tissue disorders) may lead to DISH. Long-term use of medications called retinoids (such as isotretinoin) can increase the risk for DISH. Age (being older than age 50) and sex (being male) may also play a role."
905,What are the symptoms of Factor XI deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Factor XI deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Factor XI deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal bleeding - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Prolonged partial thromboplastin time - Reduced factor XI activity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
906,What are the treatments for Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia ?,"Treatment of chronic neutrophilic leukemia may include the following:            -  Donor bone marrow transplant.     -  Chemotherapy.     -  Biologic therapy using interferon alfa.      - A clinical trial of a new treatment.            Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with chronic neutrophilic leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
907,What are the treatments for Duane-radial ray syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Duane-radial ray syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: SALL4-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Duane-radial ray syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Skeletal Limb Abnormalities   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
908,What are the treatments for Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis ?,"Your health care team will perform several tests to tell if your dialysis exchanges are removing enough wastes. These tests are especially important during the first weeks of treatment to determine whether your schedule is adequate.
                
Peritoneal Equilibration Test
                
For a peritoneal equilibration test, a dialysis nurse takes samples of your blood and dialysis solution during a 4-hour exchange. The peritoneal equilibration test measures how much dextrose your body absorbs from a bag of dialysis solution. The peritoneal equilibration test also measures how much urea and creatininewaste products of normal muscle and protein breakdownmove from your blood into the dialysis solution.
                
Clearance Test
                
For a clearance test, you will collect the used dialysis solution from a 24-hour period. A dialysis nurse takes a blood sample during the same 24-hour period. Your doctor or nurse compares the amount of urea in the used solution with the amount in your blood to see how much urea was removed. For the first months or even years of peritoneal dialysis treatment, you may still produce small amounts of urine. If you produce more than 100 milliliters (3 ounces) of urine per day, you will also collect your urine to measure its urea content.
                
From the measurements of used solution, blood, and, if available, urine, your health care team can determine your urea clearancea measurement doctors call your Kt/Vand your creatinine clearance rate. These measurements will show whether you are using the right peritoneal dialysis schedule and doses. If your dialysis schedule is not removing enough wastes, your doctor will make adjustments. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Peritoneal Dialysis Dose and Adequacy."
909,Do you have information about Cosmetics,"Summary : Cosmetics are products you apply to your body to clean it, make it more attractive, or change the way it looks. They include       -  Hair dyes     -  Makeup     -  Perfumes     -  Skin-care creams        Cosmetics that treat or prevent diseases are also drugs. Products such as dandruff shampoo, fluoride toothpaste, and antiperspirant deodorant are both cosmetics and drugs. A good way to tell if you're buying a cosmetic that is also a drug is to see if the first ingredient listed is an ""active ingredient."" The active ingredient is the chemical that makes the product effective. The manufacturer must have proof that it's safe for its intended use.    Cosmetics can cause allergic reactions. The first sign is often red and irritated skin. Fragrances and preservatives are the most common causes of skin problems.    To find out all the ingredients in a cosmetic you use, check the container. Manufacturers are required to list them. Labels such as ""natural"" and ""hypoallergenic"" have no official meaning. Companies can use them to mean whatever they want.     Food and Drug Administration"
910,What are the treatments for Heart Attack ?,"After a heart attack, many people worry about having another heart attack. They often feel depressed and may have trouble adjusting to a new lifestyle. You should discuss your feelings with your doctor. Your doctor can give you medication for anxiety or depression and may recommend professional counseling. Spend time with family, friends, and even pets. Affection can make you feel better and less lonely. Most people stop feeling depressed after they have fully recovered."
911,What is (are) FG syndrome ?,"FG syndrome (FGS) is a genetic condition that affects many parts of the body and occurs almost exclusively in males. ""FG"" represents the surname initials of the first individuals diagnosed with the disorder. People with FG syndrome frequently have intellectual disability ranging from mild to severe, hypotonia, constipation and/or anal anomalies, a distinctive facial appearance, broad thumbs and great toes, a large head compared to body size (relative macrocephaly), and abnormalities of the corpus callosum. Medical problems including heart defects, seizures, undescended testicle, and an inguinal hernia have also been reported in some affected individuals. Researchers have identified five regions of the X chromosome that are linked to FG syndrome in affected families. Mutations in the MED12 gene appears to be the most common cause of this disorder, leading to FG syndrome 1. Other genes involved with FG syndrome include FLNA (FGS2), CASK (FGS4), UPF3B (FGS6), and  BRWD3 (FGS7). FGS is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. Individualized early intervention and educational services are important so that each child can reach their fullest potential."
912,What causes Shingles ?,"Caused By A Virus Shingles is caused by a virus called varicella-zoster virus -- the one that gave you chickenpox when you were a child. As you recovered from chickenpox, the sores healed and the other symptoms went away, but the virus remained. It is with you for life. The virus hides out in nerve cells, usually in the spine. But it can become active again. Somehow, the virus gets a signal that your immunity has become weakened. This triggers the reactivation. When the virus becomes active again, it follows a nerve path called a dermatome. The nerve path begins at specific points in the spine, continues around one side of the body, and surfaces at the nerve endings in the skin. The pattern of the rash reflects the location of that nerve path. Risk Factors The leading risk factor for shingles is a history of having had chickenpox. One out of every five people who have had chickenpox is likely to get shingles. Another risk factor is aging. As we age, our natural immunity gradually loses its ability to protect against infection. The shingles virus can take advantage of this and become active again. Conditions that weaken the immune system can also put people at risk for shingles. Shingles is especially dangerous for anyone who has had cancer, radiation treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, or a transplant operation. Stress is another factor that may contribute to outbreaks. While stress alone does not cause the outbreaks, shingles often occurs in people who have recently had a stressful event in their lives. Most cases of shingles occur in adults. Only about 5 percent of cases occur in children. With children, immune deficiency is the primary risk factor, but children who had chickenpox before they were one year old may also get shingles before they become adults. There have been studies of adults who had chickenpox as children and were later exposed to children who had chickenpox. Interestingly, that exposure apparently boosted the adult's immunity, which actually helped them avoid getting shingles later in life."
913,Is X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the EBP gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of 3-hydroxysteroid-8,7-isomerase and other cells produce none. The resulting overall reduction in the amount of this enzyme underlies the signs and symptoms of X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the EBP gene can result in a total loss of 3-hydroxysteroid-8,7-isomerase. A complete lack of this enzyme is usually lethal in the early stages of development, so few males have been born with X-linked chondrodysplasia punctata 2."
914,What is (are) Pigment-dispersion syndrome ?,"Pigment-dispersion syndrome is an eye disorder that occurs when pigment granules that normally adhere to the back of the iris (the colored part of the eye) flake off into the clear fluid produced by the eye (aqueous humor). These pigment granules may flow towards the drainage canals of the eye, slowly clogging them and raising the pressure within the eye (intraocular pressure or IOP). This rise in eye pressure can cause damage to the optic nerve (the nerve in the back of the eye that carries visual images to the brain). If the optic nerve becomes damaged, pigment-dispersion syndrome becomes pigmentary glaucoma. This happens in about 30% of cases. Pigment-dispersion syndrome commonly presents between the second and fourth decades, which is earlier than other types of glaucoma. While men and women are affected in equal numbers, men develop pigmentary glaucoma up to 3 times more often than women. Myopia (nearsightedness) appears to be an important risk factor in the development of pigment-dispersion syndrome and is present in up to 80% of affected individuals. The condition may be sporadic or follow an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance with reduced penetrance . At least one gene locus on chromosome 7 has been identified. Pigment-dispersion syndrome can be treated with eye drops or other medications. In some cases, laser surgery may be performed."
915,What is (are) oral-facial-digital syndrome ?,"Oral-facial-digital syndrome is actually a group of related conditions that affect the development of the oral cavity (the mouth and teeth), facial features, and digits (fingers and toes).  Researchers have identified at least 13 potential forms of oral-facial-digital syndrome. The different types are classified by their patterns of signs and symptoms. However, the features of the various types overlap significantly, and some types are not well defined. The classification system for oral-facial-digital syndrome continues to evolve as researchers find more affected individuals and learn more about this disorder.  The signs and symptoms of oral-facial-digital syndrome vary widely. However, most forms of this disorder involve problems with development of the oral cavity, facial features, and digits. Most forms are also associated with brain abnormalities and some degree of intellectual disability.  Abnormalities of the oral cavity that occur in many types of oral-facial-digital syndrome include a split (cleft) in the tongue, a tongue with an unusual lobed shape, and the growth of noncancerous tumors or nodules on the tongue. Affected individuals may also have extra, missing, or defective teeth. Another common feature is an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate). Some people with oral-facial-digital syndrome have bands of extra tissue (called hyperplastic frenula) that abnormally attach the lip to the gums.  Distinctive facial features often associated with oral-facial-digital syndrome include a split in the lip (a cleft lip); a wide nose with a broad, flat nasal bridge; and widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism).  Abnormalities of the digits can affect both the fingers and the toes in people with oral-facial-digital syndrome. These abnormalities include fusion of certain fingers or toes (syndactyly), digits that are shorter than usual (brachydactyly), or digits that are unusually curved (clinodactyly). The presence of extra digits (polydactyly) is also seen in most forms of oral-facial-digital syndrome.  Other features occur in only one or a few types of oral-facial digital syndrome. These features help distinguish the different forms of the disorder. For example, the most common form of oral-facial-digital syndrome, type I, is associated with polycystic kidney disease. This kidney disease is characterized by the growth of fluid-filled sacs (cysts) that interfere with the kidneys' ability to filter waste products from the blood. Other forms of oral-facial-digital syndrome are characterized by neurological problems, particular changes in the structure of the brain, bone abnormalities, vision loss, and heart defects."
916,What is (are) Monogenic Forms of Diabetes: Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus and Maturity-onset Diabetes of the Young ?,"NDM is a monogenic form of diabetes that occurs in the first 6 months of life. It is a rare condition occurring in only one in 100,000 to 500,000 live births. Infants with NDM do not produce enough insulin, leading to an increase in blood glucose. NDM can be mistaken for the much more common type 1 diabetes, but type 1 diabetes usually occurs later than the first 6 months of life. In about half of those with NDM, the condition is lifelong and is called permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus (PNDM). In the rest of those with NDM, the condition is transient and disappears during infancy but can reappear later in life; this type of NDM is called transient neonatal diabetes mellitus (TNDM). Specific genes that can cause NDM have been identified. More information about each type of NDM is provided in the appendix.
                
Symptoms of NDM include thirst, frequent urination, and dehydration. NDM can be diagnosed by finding elevated levels of glucose in blood or urine. In severe cases, the deficiency of insulin may cause the body to produce an excess of acid, resulting in a potentially life-threatening condition called ketoacidosis. Most fetuses with NDM do not grow well in the womb and newborns are much smaller than those of the same gestational age, a condition called intrauterine growth restriction. After birth, some infants fail to gain weight and grow as rapidly as other infants of the same age and sex. Appropriate therapy improves and may normalize growth and development."
917,What is (are) Senior-Lken syndrome ?,"Senior-Lken syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by the combination of two specific features: a kidney condition called nephronophthisis and an eye condition known as Leber congenital amaurosis.  Nephronophthisis causes fluid-filled cysts to develop in the kidneys beginning in childhood. These cysts impair kidney function, initially causing increased urine production (polyuria), excessive thirst (polydipsia), general weakness, and extreme tiredness (fatigue). Nephronophthisis leads to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) later in childhood or in adolescence. ESRD is a life-threatening failure of kidney function that occurs when the kidneys are no longer able to filter fluids and waste products from the body effectively.  Leber congenital amaurosis primarily affects the retina, which is the specialized tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color. This condition causes vision problems, including an increased sensitivity to light (photophobia), involuntary movements of the eyes (nystagmus), and extreme farsightedness (hyperopia). Some people with Senior-Lken syndrome develop the signs of Leber congenital amaurosis within the first few years of life, while others do not develop vision problems until later in childhood."
918,What are the symptoms of Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia with cone-rod dystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia with cone-rod dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia with cone-rod dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Abnormality of color vision 50% Astigmatism 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Hypermetropia 50% Myopia 50% Nystagmus 50% Photophobia 50% Scoliosis 50% Visual impairment 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Abnormality of macular pigmentation - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cone/cone-rod dystrophy - Coxa vara - Cupped ribs - Dental malocclusion - Femoral bowing - Hypoplastic inferior ilia - Joint stiffness - Metaphyseal cupping - Metaphyseal irregularity - Metaphyseal widening - Narrow greater sacrosciatic notches - Ovoid vertebral bodies - Postnatal growth retardation - Progressive visual loss - Recurrent otitis media - Rhizomelia - Severe platyspondyly - Short finger - Short metacarpal - Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia - Tibial bowing - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
919,Do you have information about Sexual Problems in Men,"Summary : Many men have sexual problems. They become more common as men age. Problems can include       - Erectile dysfunction    - Reduced or lost interest in sex    - Problems with ejaculation    - Low testosterone       Stress, illness, medicines, or emotional problems may also be factors. Occasional problems with sexual function are common. If problems last more than a few months or cause distress for you or your partner, you should see your health care provider."
920,What is (are) Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your kidneys healthy ?,"Kidney failure, also called end-stage kidney disease or ESRD, means your kidneys no longer work well enough to do their job. You will need treatment to replace the work your kidneys have stopped doing."
921,What is (are) Spastic diplegia cerebral palsy ?,"Spastic diplegia cerebral palsy is a form of cerebral palsy, a neurological condition that usually appears in infancy or early childhood and permanently affects muscle control and coordination. Affected people have increased muscle tone which leads to spasticity (stiff or tight muscles and exaggerated reflexes) in the legs. The arm muscles are generally less affected or not affected at all. Other signs and symptoms may include delayed motor or movement milestones (i.e. rolling over, sitting, standing); walking on toes; and a ""scissored"" gait (style of walking). It occurs when the portion of the brain that controls movement is damaged or develops abnormally. The exact underlying cause is often unknown; however, the condition has been associated with genetic abnormalities; congenital brain malformations; maternal infections or fevers; and/or injury before, during or shortly after birth. There is no cure, and treatment options vary depending on the signs and symptoms present in each person and the severity of the condition."
922,What is (are) Tourette Syndrome ?,"If you have Tourette syndrome, you make unusual movements or sounds, called tics. You have little or no control over them. Common tics are throat-clearing and blinking. You may repeat words, spin, or, rarely, blurt out swear words.     Tourette syndrome is a disorder of the nervous system. It often occurs with other problems, such as       -  Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  (ADHD)    -  Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)    -  Anxiety    -  Depression       The cause of Tourette syndrome is unknown. It is more common in boys than girls. The tics usually start in childhood and may be worst in the early teens. Many people eventually outgrow them.     No treatment is needed unless the tics interfere with everyday life. Excitement or worry can make tics worse. Calm, focused activities may make them better. Medicines and talk therapy may also help.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
923,What are the symptoms of Corneal dystrophy crystalline of Schnyder ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Corneal dystrophy crystalline of Schnyder? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Corneal dystrophy crystalline of Schnyder. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Corneal dystrophy - Crystalline corneal dystrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
924,How to diagnose Rheumatoid Arthritis ?,"Rheumatoid arthritis can be difficult to diagnose in its early stages because the full range of symptoms develops over time, and only a few symptoms may be present in the early stages. As part of the diagnosis, your doctor will look for symptoms such as swelling, warmth, pain, and limitations in joint motion throughout your body. Your doctor may ask you questions about the intensity of your pain symptoms, how often they occur, and what makes the pain better or worse."
925,What is (are) Fallopian tube cancer ?,"Fallopian tube cancer develops in the tubes that connect a woman's ovaries and uterus. It is very rare and accounts for only 1-2% of all gynecologic cancers.  Fallopian tube cancer occurs when normal cells in one or both tubes change and grow in an uncontrolled way, forming a mass called a tumor. Cancer can begin in any of the different cell types that make up the fallopian tubes. The most common type is called adenocarcinoma (a cancer of cells from glands). Leiomyosarcoma (a cancer of smooth muscle cells) and transitional cell carcinoma (a cancer of the cells lining the fallopian tubes) are more rare.  While some fallopian tube cancers actually begin in the tubes themselves, fallopian tube cancer is more often the result of cancer spreading from other parts of the body to the tubes. For example, the fallopian tubes are a common site of metastasis (spread) of cancers that started in the ovaries, uterus, endometrium, (the tissue lining the uterus) appendix, or colon.  Women with fallopian tube cancer may experience symptoms, although some affected women may have no symptoms at all. The signs of fallopian tube cancer are often non-specific, meaning that they can also be signs of other medical conditions that are not cancer. Signs and symptoms of fallopian tube cancer can include: irregular or heavy vaginal bleeding (especially after menopause); occasional abdominal or pelvic pain or feeling of pressure; vaginal discharge that may be clear, white, or tinged with blood; and a pelvic mass or lump. Doctors use many tests to diagnose cancer of the fallopian tubes. Some of these tests may include: pelvic examination, transvaginal ultrasound, a blood test that measures the tumor marker CA-125, computed tomography (CT or CAT) scan, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Fallopian tube cancer can be best treated when detected early. If the cancer has spread to the walls of the tubes or outside of the tubes, then there is a lower chance that the disease can be treated successfully. The stage of the cancer determines the type of treatment needed. Most women will need surgery and some will go on to have chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. [1] [2]"
926,What are the symptoms of Retinoschisis autosomal dominant ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Retinoschisis autosomal dominant? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Retinoschisis autosomal dominant. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of macular pigmentation - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Peripheral retinal degeneration - Retinoschisis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
927,What are the treatments for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: ATP8B1 Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cholestasis of pregnancy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
928,What is (are) Peutz-Jeghers syndrome ?,"Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is an inherited condition that is associated with an increased risk of growths along the lining of the gastrointestinal tract (called hamartomatous polyps) and certain types of cancer. Most affected people also have characteristic dark blue to dark brown macules around the mouth, eyes, and nostrils; near the anus (perianal); and on the inside of the cheeks (buccal mucosa). PJS is caused by changes (mutations) in the STK11 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Management typically includes high-risk screening for associated polyps and cancers."
929,How many people are affected by nemaline myopathy ?,"Nemaline myopathy has an estimated incidence of 1 in 50,000 individuals."
930,Is metatropic dysplasia inherited ?,"Metatropic dysplasia is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one mutated copy of the TRPV4 gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. Most cases of metatropic dysplasia are caused by new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a few reported cases, an affected person has inherited the condition from an affected parent.  In the past, it was thought that the lethal type of metatropic dysplasia had an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, in which both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. However, more recent research has confirmed that all metatropic dysplasia has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance."
931,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.     Fulguration     Fulguration is a surgical procedure that destroys tissue using an electric current. A tool with a small wire loop on the end is used to remove the cancer or to burn away the tumor with electricity.       Segmental resection of the renal pelvis    This is a surgical procedure to remove localized cancer from the renal pelvis without removing the entire kidney. Segmental resection may be done to save kidney function when the other kidney is damaged or has already been removed.        Laser surgery    A laser beam (narrow beam of intense light) is used as a knife to remove the cancer. A laser beam can also be used to kill the cancer cells. This procedure may also be called or laser fulguration.       Regional chemotherapy and regional biologic therapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer; substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. Regional treatment means the anticancer drugs or biologic substances are placed directly into an organ or a body cavity such as the abdomen, so the drugs will affect cancer cells in that area. Clinical trials are studying chemotherapy or biologic therapy using drugs placed directly into the renal pelvis or the ureter.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
932,What are the symptoms of Familial visceral myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Familial visceral myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial visceral myopathy with external ophthalmoplegia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the gastric mucosa 90% Decreased body weight 90% Malabsorption 90% Myopathy 90% Ptosis 90% Skeletal muscle atrophy 90% Abnormality of the mitral valve 7.5% Abdominal distention - Abdominal pain - Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - External ophthalmoplegia - Gastroparesis - Malnutrition - Ophthalmoplegia - Peripheral neuropathy - Spontaneous esophageal perforation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
933,How many people are affected by Kearns-Sayre syndrome ?,"The prevalence of Kearns-Sayre syndrome is approximately 1 to 3 per 100,000 individuals."
934,What are the treatments for Neurological Complications of AIDS ?,"No single treatment can cure the neurological complications of AIDS. Some disorders require aggressive therapy while others are treated symptomatically.
                
Medicines range from analgesics sold over the counter to antiepileptic drugs, opiates, corticosteroids, and some classes of antidepressants. Other treatments include radiation therapy or chemotherapy to kill or shrink cancerous brain tumors that may be caused by HIV, antifungal or antimalarial drugs to combat certain bacterial infections, and penicillin to treat neurosyphilis. Aggressive antiretroviral therapy is used to treat AIDS dementia complex, PML, and cytomegalovirus encephalitis. HAART, or highly active antiretroviral therapy, combines at least three drugs to reduce the amount of virus circulating in the blood and may also delay the start of some infections."
935,What are the treatments for Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: MCT8-Specific Thyroid Hormone Cell-Membrane Transporter Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Intellectual Disability  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: T3 Test   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
936,Is Pitt-Hopkins syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
937,What is (are) Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA ?,"Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA, also called Morquio syndrome, type A) is a metabolic condition that primarily affects the skeleton. The severity, age of onset, and associated symptoms vary significantly from person to person and range from a severe and rapidly progressive, early-onset form to a slowly progressive, later-onset form. The severe form is usually diagnosed between ages 1 and 3, while the milder form may not become evident until late childhood or adolescence. Signs and symptoms include various skeletal abnormalities such as short stature, knock knees, pectus carinatum, and malformations of the spine, hips and wrists. Affected people may also experience involvement of other organ systems such as respiratory problems, valvular heart disease, hearing impairment, corneal clouding, dental abnormalities, hepatomegaly, and spinal cord compression. MPS IVA is caused by changes (mutations) in the GALNS gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
938,What is (are) autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay ?,"Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, more commonly known as ARSACS, is a condition affecting muscle movement. People with ARSACS typically have abnormal tensing of the muscles (spasticity), difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), muscle wasting (amyotrophy), involuntary eye movements (nystagmus), and speech difficulties (dysarthria). Other problems may include deformities of the fingers and feet, reduced sensation and weakness in the arms and legs (peripheral neuropathy), yellow streaks of fatty tissue in the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye (hypermyelination of the retina), and less commonly, leaks in one of the valves that control blood flow through the heart (mitral valve prolapse). An unsteady gait is the first symptom of ARSACS. It usually appears between the age of 12 months and 18 months, as toddlers are learning to walk. The signs and symptoms worsen over the years, with increased spasticity and ataxia of the arms and legs. In some cases spasticity disappears, but this apparent improvement is thought to be due to degeneration of nerves in the arms and legs. Most affected individuals require a wheelchair by the time they are in their thirties or forties.  This condition was first seen in people of the Charlevoix-Saguenay region of Quebec, Canada. The majority of people with ARSACS live in Quebec or have recent ancestors from Quebec. People with ARSACS have also been identified in Japan, Turkey, Tunisia, Spain, Italy, and Belgium. The signs and symptoms of ARSACS seen in other countries differ from those in Quebec. In people with ARSACS outside of Quebec, hypermyelination of the retina is seen less often, intelligence may be below normal, and symptoms tend to appear at a later age."
939,What are the treatments for Majeed syndrome ?,"How might Majeed syndrome be treated? Treatment is based upon the symptoms present. Chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis (CRMO) is treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and physical therapy to avoid disuse atrophy of muscles and contractures. If CRMO does not respond to NSAIDs, corticosteroids can be used short term to control CRMO and skin manifestations. Resolution of bone inflammation has been reported in at least two children who were treated with an IL-1 inhibitor. Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia (CDA) may be treated with red blood cell transfusion."
940,What are the symptoms of Hashimoto's Disease ?,"Many people with Hashimotos disease have no symptoms at first. As the disease slowly progresses, the thyroid usually enlarges and may cause the front of the neck to look swollen. The enlarged thyroid, called a goiter, may create a feeling of fullness in the throat, though it is usually not painful. After many years, or even decades, damage to the thyroid causes it to shrink and the goiter to disappear.
                
Not everyone with Hashimotos disease develops hypothyroidism. For those who do, the hypothyroidism may be subclinicalmild and without symptoms, especially early in its course. With progression to hypothyroidism, people may have one or more of the following symptoms:
                
- fatigue  - weight gain  - cold intolerance  - joint and muscle pain  - constipation, or fewer than three bowel movements a week  - dry, thinning hair  - heavy or irregular menstrual periods and problems becoming pregnant  - depression  - memory problems  - a slowed heart rate"
941,What is (are) Ear Disorders ?,"Your ear has three main parts: outer, middle and inner. You use all of them in hearing. Sound waves come in through your outer ear. They reach your middle ear, where they make your eardrum vibrate. The vibrations are transmitted through three tiny bones, called ossicles, in your middle ear. The vibrations travel to your inner ear, a snail-shaped organ. The inner ear makes the nerve impulses that are sent to the brain. Your brain recognizes them as sounds. The inner ear also controls balance.    A variety of conditions may affect your hearing or balance:       - Ear infections are the most common illness in infants and young children.    - Tinnitus, a roaring in your ears, can be the result of loud noises, medicines or a variety of other causes.    - Meniere's disease may be the result of fluid problems in your inner ear; its symptoms include tinnitus and dizziness.    - Ear barotrauma is an injury to your ear because of changes in barometric (air) or water pressure.       Some ear disorders can result in hearing disorders and deafness."
942,How many people are affected by MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy ?,MECP2-related severe neonatal encephalopathy is likely a rare condition. Twenty to 30 affected males have been reported in the scientific literature.
943,What is (are) Rheumatic Fever ?,"Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory condition that may develop after infection with group A Streptococcus bacteria, such as strep throat or scarlet fever. It is primarily diagnosed in children between the ages of 6 and 16 and can affect the heart, joints, nervous system and/or skin. Early signs and symptoms include sore throat; swollen red tonsils; fever; headache; and/or muscle and joint aches. Some affected people develop rheumatic heart disease, which can lead to serious inflammation and scarring of the heart valves. It is not clear why some people who are infected with group A Streptococcus bacteria go on to develop rheumatic fever, while others do not; however, it appears that some families may have a genetic susceptibility to develop the condition. Treatment usually includes antibiotics and/or anti-inflammatory medications."
944,What are the symptoms of What I need to know about Diarrhea ?,"In addition to passing frequent, loose stools, other possible symptoms include
                
- cramps or pain in the abdomenthe area between the chest and hips  - an urgent need to use the bathroom  - loss of bowel control
                
You may feel sick to your stomach or become dehydrated. If a virus or bacteria is the cause of your diarrhea, you may have fever and chills and bloody stools.
                
Dehydration
                
Being dehydrated means your body does not have enough fluid to work properly. Every time you have a bowel movement, you lose fluids. Diarrhea causes you to lose even more fluids. You also lose salts and minerals such as sodium, chloride, and potassium. These salts and minerals affect the amount of water that stays in your body.
                
Dehydration can be serious, especially for children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.
                
Signs of dehydration in adults are
                
- being thirsty  - urinating less often than usual  - having dark-colored urine  - having dry skin  - feeling tired  - feeling dizzy or fainting
                
Signs of dehydration in babies and young children are
                
- having a dry mouth and tongue  - crying without tears  - having no wet diapers for 3 hours or more  - having sunken eyes, cheeks, or soft spot in the skull  - having a high fever  - being more cranky or drowsy than usual
                
Also, when people are dehydrated, their skin does not flatten back to normal right away after being gently pinched and released."
945,What are the symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 3 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylocostal dysostosis 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of immune system physiology 90% Abnormality of the intervertebral disk 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Scoliosis 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Short thorax 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% Kyphosis 50% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the ureter 7.5% Anomalous pulmonary venous return 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Broad forehead 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Prominent occiput 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Slender finger - Supernumerary vertebral ossification centers - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
946,Do you have information about Diabetes Medicines,"Summary : Diabetes means your blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels are too high. If you can't control your diabetes with wise food choices and physical activity, you may need diabetes medicines. The kind of medicine you take depends on your type of diabetes, your schedule, and your other health conditions.     With type 1 diabetes, your pancreas does not make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that helps glucose get into your cells to give them energy. Without insulin, too much glucose stays in your blood. If you have type 1 diabetes, you will need to take insulin.     Type 2 diabetes, the most common type, can start when the body doesn't use insulin as it should. If your body can't keep up with the need for insulin, you may need to take pills. Along with meal planning and physical activity, diabetes pills help people with type 2 diabetes or gestational diabetes keep their blood glucose levels on target. Several kinds of pills are available. Each works in a different way. Many people take two or three kinds of pills. Some people take combination pills. Combination pills contain two kinds of diabetes medicine in one tablet. Some people take pills and insulin.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
947,Is mucopolysaccharidosis type I inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
948,What are the treatments for Char syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Char syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Char Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Char syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Patent Ductus Arteriosus   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
949,What are the treatments for 47 XXX syndrome ?,"How might 47 XXX syndrome be treated? There is no cure for 47 XXX syndrome, and there is no way to remove the extra X chromosome that is present in an affected individual's cells. Management of the condition varies and depends on several factors including the age at diagnosis, the specific symptoms that are present, and the overall severity of the disorder in the affected individual. Early intervention services are typically recommended for infants and children that are diagnosed with the condition. Specific recommendations include developmental assessment by 4 months of age to evaluate muscle tone and strength; language and speech assessment by 12 months of age; pre-reading assessment during preschool years; and an assessment of additional learning disabilities as well as social and emotional problems. Evidence suggests that children with 47 XXX syndrome are very responsive to early intervention services and treatment. Some services that affected children may take part in include speech therapy, occupational therapy, physical therapy, and developmental therapy and counseling. It is also recommended that infants and children with 47 XXX syndrome receive kidney and heart evaluations to detect possible abnormalities. Adolescent and adult women who have late periods, menstrual abnormalities, or fertility issues should be evaluated for primary ovarian failure (POF). Additional treatment for this disorder depends on the specific signs and symptoms present in the affected individual."
950,What is (are) Interstitial Cystitis ?,"Interstitial cystitis (IC) is a condition that causes discomfort or pain in the bladder and a need to urinate frequently and urgently. It is far more common in women than in men. The symptoms vary from person to person. Some people may have pain without urgency or frequency. Others have urgency and frequency without pain. Women's symptoms often get worse during their periods. They may also have pain with sexual intercourse.    The cause of IC isn't known. There is no one test to tell if you have it. Doctors often run tests to rule out other possible causes of symptoms. There is no cure for IC, but treatments can help most people feel better. They include       - Distending, or inflating, the bladder    - Bathing the inside of the bladder with a drug solution    - Oral medicines    - Electrical nerve stimulation    - Physical therapy    - Lifestyle changes    - Bladder training    - In rare cases, surgery       NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
951,What are the symptoms of Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1A ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1A? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1A. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absent Achilles reflex - Achilles tendon contracture - Adult onset - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - EMG: myopathic abnormalities - Heterogeneous - Hyporeflexia - Late-onset distal muscle weakness - Muscle fiber splitting - Muscular dystrophy - Nasal, dysarthic speech - Pelvic girdle muscle weakness - Rimmed vacuoles - Shoulder girdle muscle weakness - Slow progression - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
952,What are the symptoms of Mitochondrial Membrane Protein-Associated Neurodegeneration ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Mitochondrial Membrane Protein-Associated Neurodegeneration ? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mitochondrial Membrane Protein-Associated Neurodegeneration . If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal lower motor neuron morphology - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Delayed speech and language development - Dementia - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Dysarthria - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Emotional lability - Gait disturbance - Hyperreflexia - Hyporeflexia - Impulsivity - Lewy bodies - Neurodegeneration - Optic atrophy - Oromandibular dystonia - Parkinsonism - Pes cavus - Phenotypic variability - Progressive - Progressive visual loss - Scapular winging - Spasticity - Tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
953,What are the genetic changes related to Stargardt macular degeneration ?,"In most cases, Stargardt macular degeneration is caused by mutations in the ABCA4 gene. Less often, mutations in the ELOVL4 gene cause this condition. The ABCA4 and ELOVL4 genes provide instructions for making proteins that are found in light-sensing (photoreceptor) cells in the retina.  The ABCA4 protein transports potentially toxic substances out of photoreceptor cells. These substances form after phototransduction, the process by which light entering the eye is converted into electrical signals that are transmitted to the brain. Mutations in the ABCA4 gene prevent the ABCA4 protein from removing toxic byproducts from photoreceptor cells. These toxic substances build up and form lipofuscin in the photoreceptor cells and the surrounding cells of the retina, eventually causing cell death. Loss of cells in the retina causes the progressive vision loss characteristic of Stargardt macular degeneration.  The ELOVL4 protein plays a role in making a group of fats called very long-chain fatty acids. The ELOVL4 protein is primarily active (expressed) in the retina, but is also expressed in the brain and skin. The function of very long-chain fatty acids within the retina is unknown. Mutations in the ELOVL4 gene lead to the formation of ELOVL4 protein clumps (aggregates) that build up and may interfere with retinal cell functions, ultimately leading to cell death."
954,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease ?,"NINDS supports research on gene-linked disorders, including the leukodystrophies. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure them."
955,What are the genetic changes related to fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ?,"Mutations in the FMR1 gene increase the risk of developing FXTAS. The FMR1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called FMRP, which helps regulate the production of other proteins. FMRP plays a role in the development of synapses, which are specialized connections between nerve cells. Synapses are critical for relaying nerve impulses.  Individuals with FXTAS have a mutation in which a DNA segment, known as a CGG triplet repeat, is expanded within the FMR1 gene. Normally, this DNA segment is repeated from 5 to about 40 times. In people with FXTAS, however, the CGG segment is repeated 55 to 200 times. This mutation is known as an FMR1 gene premutation. An expansion of more than 200 repeats, a full mutation, causes a more serious condition called fragile X syndrome, which is characterized by intellectual disability, learning problems, and certain physical features.  For unknown reasons, the premutation leads to the overproduction of abnormal FMR1 mRNA that contains the expanded repeat region. The FMR1mRNA is the genetic blueprint for the production of FMRP. Researchers believe that the high levels of mRNA cause the signs and symptoms of FXTAS. The mRNA has been found in clumps of proteins and mRNA (intranuclear inclusions) in brain and nerve cells in people with FXTAS. It is thought that attaching to FMR1 mRNA and forming clumps keeps the other proteins from performing their functions, although the effect of the intranuclear inclusions is unclear. In addition, the repeat expansion makes producing FMRP from the mRNA blueprint more difficult, and as a result, people with the FMR1 gene premutation can have less FMRP than normal. A reduction in the protein is not thought to be involved in FXTAS. However, it may cause mild versions of the features seen in fragile X syndrome, such as prominent ears, anxiety, and mood swings."
956,What are the symptoms of Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Corneal endothelial dystrophy type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital corneal dystrophy - Opacification of the corneal stroma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
957,What is (are) McCune Albright syndrome ?,"McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) is a disease that affects the bones, skin, and several hormone-producing (endocrine) tissues. It is characterized by replacement of normal bone tissue with areas of abnormal fibrous growth (fibrous dysplasia); patches of abnormal skin coloring with jagged borders (cafe-au-lait spots); and abnormalities in the glands that regulate the body's rate of growth, sexual development, and other metabolic functions (multiple endocrine dysfunction). MAS is caused by a change (mutation) in the GNAS gene that occurs by chance very early in development. As a result, some of the body's cells have a normal version of the GNAS gene, while other cells have the mutated version. This phenomenon is called mosaicism. The severity of MAS and its features depend on the number and location of cells that have the mutated GNAS gene. Because MAS occurs by chance, it is not inherited or passed down from one generation to the next."
958,What are the symptoms of Dermatoleukodystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dermatoleukodystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dermatoleukodystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Hyperkeratosis 90% Morphological abnormality of the central nervous system 90% Hyperreflexia 50% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Large hands - Leukodystrophy - Long foot - Macrotia - Premature skin wrinkling - Progeroid facial appearance - Prominent nose - Thickened skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
959,What is (are) Dry Eye ?,"National Eye Institute  National Institutes of Health  2020 Vision Place  Bethesda, MD 20892-3655  301-496-5248  E-mail: 2020@nei.nih.gov  www.nei.nih.gov"
960,What are the symptoms of I cell disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of I cell disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for I cell disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the thorax 90% Coarse facial features 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Corneal erosion 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Hernia 90% Hypertrichosis 90% Morphological abnormality of the central nervous system 90% Short stature 90% Splenomegaly 90% Anteverted nares 50% Depressed nasal bridge 50% Epicanthus 50% Lack of skin elasticity 50% Long philtrum 50% Thin skin 50% Abnormality of the heart valves 7.5% Abnormality of the wrist 7.5% Broad alveolar ridges 7.5% Cavernous hemangioma 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Corneal dystrophy 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Recurrent respiratory infections 7.5% Weight loss 7.5% Abnormality of the rib cage - Aortic regurgitation - Atlantoaxial dislocation - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Beaking of vertebral bodies T12-L3 - Bullet-shaped phalanges of the hand - Cardiomegaly - Carpal bone hypoplasia - Death in childhood - Deficiency of N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase - Diastasis recti - Failure to thrive - Flared iliac wings - Flat acetabular roof - Heart murmur - High forehead - Hip dislocation - Hoarse voice - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Hypoplasia of the odontoid process - Hypoplastic scapulae - Increased serum beta-hexosaminidase - Increased serum iduronate sulfatase activity - Inguinal hernia - Large sella turcica - Lower thoracic interpediculate narrowness - Macroglossia - Megalocornea - Metaphyseal widening - Mucopolysacchariduria - Myelopathy - Narrow forehead - Neonatal hypotonia - Opacification of the corneal stroma - Osteopenia - Ovoid vertebral bodies - Palpebral edema - Pathologic fracture - Progressive alveolar ridge hypertropy - Protuberant abdomen - Recurrent bronchitis - Recurrent otitis media - Recurrent pneumonia - Severe global developmental delay - Severe postnatal growth retardation - Short long bone - Sparse eyebrow - Split hand - Talipes equinovarus - Thickened calvaria - Thoracolumbar kyphoscoliosis - Umbilical hernia - Varus deformity of humeral neck - Wide intermamillary distance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
961,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Alternating Hemiplegia ?,"The NINDS supports research on paralytic disorders such as alternating hemiplegia, with the goals of learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat and, ultimately cure them."
962,What are the symptoms of Neutropenia lethal congenital with eosinophilia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Neutropenia lethal congenital with eosinophilia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Neutropenia lethal congenital with eosinophilia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital neutropenia - Eosinophilia - Neonatal death - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
963,Is Hashimoto's encephalitis inherited ?,"Is Hashimoto's encephalitis inherited? We are aware of only one instance when more than one person in the same family had Hashimoto's encephalitis (HE). To our knowledge, no other cases of familial HE have been reported; HE typically occurs in people with no family history of the condition (sporadically). HE can occur in association with other autoimmune disorders, so HE may develop due to an interaction between genes that predispose a person (susceptibility genes) and environmental triggers."
964,Is DOORS syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
965,Do you have information about Water Pollution,"Summary : We all need clean water. People need it to grow crops and to operate factories, and for drinking and recreation. Fish and wildlife depend on it to survive.     Many different pollutants can harm our rivers, streams, lakes, and oceans. The three most common are soil, nutrients, and bacteria. Rain washes soil into streams and rivers. The soil can kill tiny animals and fish eggs. It can clog the gills of fish and block light, causing plants to die. Nutrients, often from fertilizers, cause problems in lakes, ponds, and reservoirs. Nitrogen and phosphorus make algae grow and can turn water green. Bacteria, often from sewage spills, can pollute fresh or salt water.     You can help protect your water supply:       - Don't pour household products such as cleansers, beauty products, medicines, auto fluids, paint, and lawn care products down the drain. Take them to a hazardous waste collection site.    - Throw away excess household grease (meat fats, lard, cooking oil, shortening, butter, margarine, etc.) diapers, condoms, and personal hygiene products in the garbage can.    - Clean up after your pets. Pet waste contains nutrients and germs.       Environmental Protection Agency"
966,What is the outlook for Oropharyngeal Cancer ?,Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) depends on the following:          -  Whether the patient has HPV infection of the oropharynx.    - Whether the patient has a history of smoking cigarettes for ten or more pack years.     -  The stage of the cancer.    -  The number and size of lymph nodes with cancer.        Oropharyngeal tumors related to HPV infection have a better prognosis and are less likely to recur than tumors not linked to HPV infection.   Treatment options depend on the following:         - The stage of the cancer.    - Keeping the patient's ability to speak and swallow as normal as possible.    - The patient's general health.        Patients with oropharyngeal cancer have an increased risk of another cancer in the head or neck. This risk is increased in patients who continue to smoke or drink alcohol after treatment.   See the PDQ summary Cigarette Smoking: Health Risks and How to Quit for more information.
967,What is (are) hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II ?,"Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type II (HSAN2) is a condition that primarily affects the sensory nerve cells (sensory neurons), which transmit information about sensations such as pain, temperature, and touch. These sensations are impaired in people with HSAN2. In some affected people, the condition may also cause mild abnormalities of the autonomic nervous system, which controls involuntary body functions such as heart rate, digestion, and breathing. The signs and symptoms of HSAN2 typically begin in infancy or early childhood.  The first sign of HSAN2 is usually numbness in the hands and feet. Soon after, affected individuals lose the ability to feel pain or sense hot and cold. People with HSAN2 often develop open sores (ulcers) on their hands and feet. Because affected individuals cannot feel the pain of these sores, they may not seek treatment right away. Without treatment, the ulcers can become infected and may lead to amputation of the affected area. Unintentional self-injury is common in people with HSAN2, typically by biting the tongue, lips, or fingers. These injuries may lead to spontaneous amputation of the affected areas. Affected individuals often have injuries and fractures in their hands, feet, limbs, and joints that go untreated because of the inability to feel pain. Repeated injury can lead to a condition called Charcot joints, in which the bones and tissue surrounding joints are destroyed.  The effects of HSAN2 on the autonomic nervous system are more variable. Some infants with HSAN2 have trouble sucking, which makes it difficult for them to eat. People with HSAN2 may experience episodes in which breathing slows or stops for short periods (apnea); digestive problems such as the backflow of stomach acids into the esophagus (gastroesophageal reflux); or slow eye blink or gag reflexes. Affected individuals may also have weak deep tendon reflexes, such as the reflex being tested when a doctor taps the knee with a hammer.  Some people with HSAN2 lose a type of taste bud on the tip of the tongue called lingual fungiform papillae and have a diminished sense of taste."
968,What are the symptoms of Crome syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Crome syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Crome syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the renal tubule 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Cataract 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Encephalitis 90% Seizures 90% Nystagmus 50% Acute tubular necrosis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar dysplasia - Congenital cataract - Encephalopathy - Intellectual disability - Short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
969,What are the symptoms of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 4 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral atrophy - Cerebral calcification - Convex nasal ridge - CSF lymphocytic pleiocytosis - Death in childhood - Dystonia - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Feeding difficulties - Hepatomegaly - Hepatosplenomegaly - Hydrocephalus - Infantile onset - Intrauterine growth retardation - Leukodystrophy - Low-set ears - Pancytopenia - Progressive microcephaly - Severe global developmental delay - Spasticity - Splenomegaly - Thrombocytopenia - Ventriculomegaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
970,Is familial pityriasis rubra pilaris inherited ?,"Familial pityriasis rubra pilaris usually has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Affected individuals usually inherit the condition from one affected parent. However, the condition is said to have incomplete penetrance because not everyone who inherits the altered gene from a parent develops the condition's characteristic skin abnormalities.  The other types of pityriasis rubra pilaris are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
971,What are the symptoms of Diabetic mastopathy ?,"What are the symptoms of diabetic mastopathy? Common symptoms of diabetic mastopathy include hard, irregular, easily movable, discrete, painless breast mass(es). This condition can involve one or both breasts and can affect males and females. The breast lesions may not be palpable in some patients. Patients with diabetic mastopathy who have had insulin-requiring diabetes for a long time (>15 years) commonly have other diabetes complications as well (e.g., thyroid, eye, and joint involvement)."
972,What is (are) cold-induced sweating syndrome ?,"Cold-induced sweating syndrome is characterized by problems with regulating body temperature and other abnormalities affecting many parts of the body. In infancy, the features of this condition are often known as Crisponi syndrome. Researchers originally thought that cold-induced sweating syndrome and Crisponi syndrome were separate disorders, but it is now widely believed that they represent the same condition at different times during life.  Infants with Crisponi syndrome have unusual facial features, including a flat nasal bridge, upturned nostrils, a long space between the nose and upper lip (philtrum), a high arched roof of the mouth (palate), a small chin (micrognathia), and low-set ears. The muscles in the lower part of the face are weak, leading to severe feeding difficulties, excessive drooling, and breathing problems. Other physical abnormalities associated with Crisponi syndrome include a scaly skin rash, an inability to fully extend the elbows, overlapping fingers and tightly fisted hands, and malformations of the feet and toes. Affected infants startle easily and often tense their facial muscles into a grimace-like expression. By six months of age, infants with Crisponi syndrome develop unexplained high fevers that increase the risk of seizures and sudden death.  Many of the health problems associated with Crisponi syndrome improve with time, and affected individuals who survive the newborn period go on to develop other features of cold-induced sweating syndrome in early childhood. Within the first decade of life, affected individuals begin having episodes of profuse sweating (hyperhidrosis) and shivering involving the face, torso, and arms. The excessive sweating is usually triggered by exposure to temperatures below about 65 or 70 degrees Fahrenheit, but it can also be triggered by nervousness or eating sugary foods. Paradoxically, affected individuals tend not to sweat in warmer conditions, instead becoming flushed and overheated in hot environments.  Adolescents with cold-induced sweating syndrome typically develop abnormal side-to-side and front-to-back curvature of the spine (scoliosis and kyphosis, often called kyphoscoliosis when they occur together). Although infants may develop life-threatening fevers, affected individuals who survive infancy have a normal life expectancy."
973,Is hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
974,What is (are) Kawasaki disease ?,"Kawasaki disease is a sudden and time-limited (acute) illness that affects infants and young children. Affected children develop a prolonged fever lasting several days, a skin rash, and swollen lymph nodes in the neck (cervical lymphadenopathy). They also develop redness in the whites of the eyes (conjunctivitis) and redness (erythema) of the lips, lining of the mouth (oral mucosa), tongue, palms of the hands, and soles of the feet.  Without treatment, 15 to 25 percent of individuals with Kawasaki disease develop bulging and thinning of the walls of the arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle (coronary artery aneurysms) or other damage to the coronary arteries, which can be life-threatening."
975,What are the treatments for Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?,"Although researchers have studied many treatments, none has been shown to cure or slow the progress of PSC. Treatment of PSC aims to relieve symptoms and manage complications. Medical treatment may include various medications to relieve itching, antibiotics to treat infections, and vitamin supplements. Instruments passed through an endoscope during ERCP can help open blocked bile ducts.
                
Liver transplantation may be an option if the liver begins to fail."
976,What is (are) Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?,"Childhood nephrotic syndrome is not a disease in itself; rather, it is a group of symptoms that
                
- indicate kidney damageparticularly damage to the glomeruli, the tiny units within the kidney where blood is filtered  - result in the release of too much protein from the body into the urine
                
When the kidneys are damaged, the protein albumin, normally found in the blood, will leak into the urine. Proteins are large, complex molecules that perform a number of important functions in the body.
                
The two types of childhood nephrotic syndrome are
                
- primarythe most common type of childhood nephrotic syndrome, which begins in the kidneys and affects only the kidneys  - secondarythe syndrome is caused by other diseases
                
A health care provider may refer a child with nephrotic syndrome to a nephrologista doctor who specializes in treating kidney disease. A child should see a pediatric nephrologist, who has special training to take care of kidney problems in children, if possible. However, in many parts of the country, pediatric nephrologists are in short supply, so the child may need to travel. If traveling is not possible, some nephrologists who treat adults can also treat children."
977,What is (are) Anal Disorders ?,"The anus is the opening of the rectum through which stool passes out of your body. Problems with the anus are common. They include hemorrhoids, abscesses, fissures (cracks), and cancer.    You may be embarrassed to talk about your anal troubles. But it is important to let your doctor know, especially if you have pain or bleeding. The more details you can give about your problem, the better your doctor will be able to help you. Treatments vary depending on the particular problem.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
978,What are the symptoms of GRACILE syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of GRACILE syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for GRACILE syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of iron homeostasis 90% Abnormality of the renal tubule 90% Aminoaciduria 90% Cirrhosis 90% Hearing impairment 90% Hepatic steatosis 90% Abnormality of hair texture 50% Aminoaciduria 20/20 Cholestasis 19/20 Neonatal hypotonia 3/20 Chronic lactic acidosis - Increased serum ferritin - Increased serum iron - Increased serum pyruvate - Intrauterine growth retardation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
979,Is hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
980,What is (are) Macrodactyly of the hand ?,"Macrodactyly of the hand is a rare condition in which a person's fingers are abnormally large due to the overgrowth of the underlying bone and soft tissue. This condition is congenital, meaning that babies are born with it. Although babies are born with the condition, macrodactyly is usually not inherited. Most of the time, only one hand is affected, but usually more than one finger is involved. Macrodactyly may also coexist with syndactyly, a condition in which two fingers are fused together. Although it is a benign condition, macrodactyly is deforming and can look cosmetically displeasing. Surgery, usually involving multiple procedures, can help the problem."
981,What are the stages of Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ?,"Key Points
                    - After a childhood extracranial germ cell tumor has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread from where the tumor started to nearby areas or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - Stages are used to describe the different types of extracranial germ cell tumors.         - Childhood nonseminoma testicular germ cell tumors     - Childhood ovarian germ cell tumors      - Childhood extragonadal extracranial germ cell tumors
                
                
                    After a childhood extracranial germ cell tumor has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread from where the tumor started to nearby areas or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread from where the tumor started to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. In some cases, staging may follow surgery to remove the tumor.    The following procedures may be used:         -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the lymph nodes. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging.    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the chest or lymph nodes, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones with cancer and is detected by a scanner.    -   Thoracentesis : The removal of fluid from the space between the lining of the chest and the lung, using a needle. A pathologist views the fluid under a microscope to look for cancer cells.    -   Paracentesis : The removal of fluid from the space between the lining of the abdomen and the organs in the abdomen, using a needle. A pathologist views the fluid under a microscope to look for cancer cells.        The results from tests and procedures used to detect and diagnose childhood extracranial germ cell tumors may also be used in staging.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if an extracranial germ cell tumor spreads to the liver, the cancer cells in the liver are actually cancerous germ cells. The disease is metastatic extracranial germ cell tumor, not liver cancer.
                
                
                    Stages are used to describe the different types of extracranial germ cell tumors.
                    Childhood nonseminoma testicular germ cell tumors            -  Stage I: In stage I, the cancer is found in the testicle only and is completely removed by surgery.     -  Stage II: In stage II, the cancer is removed by surgery and some cancer cells remain in the scrotum or cancer that can be seen with a microscope only has spread to the scrotum or spermatic cord. Tumor marker levels do not return to normal after surgery or the tumor marker levels increase.     -  Stage III: In stage III, the cancer has spread to one or more lymph nodes in the abdomen and is not completely removed by surgery. The cancer that remains after surgery can be seen without a microscope.     -  Stage IV: In stage IV, the cancer has spread to distant parts of the body such as the liver, brain, bone, or lung.              Childhood ovarian germ cell tumors     There are two types of stages used for childhood ovarian germ cell tumors. The following stages are from the Children's Oncology Group:            -  Stage I: In stage I, the cancer is in the ovary and can be completely removed by surgery and the capsule (outer covering) of the ovary has not ruptured (broken open).     -  Stage II: In stage II, one of the following is true:                   - The cancer is not completely removed by surgery. The remaining cancer can be seen with a microscope only.       - The cancer has spread to the lymph nodes and can be seen with a microscope only.       - The cancer has spread to the capsule (outer covering) of the ovary.                -  Stage III: In stage III, one of the following is true:                  - The cancer is not completely removed by surgery. The remaining cancer can be seen without a microscope.       - The cancer has spread to lymph nodes and the lymph nodes are 2 centimeters or larger. Cancer in the lymph nodes can be seen without a microscope.       - The cancer is found in fluid in the abdomen.                -  Stage IV: In stage IV, the cancer has spread to the lung, liver, brain, or bone.            The following stages are from the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO):            -  Stage I: In stage I, cancer is found in one or both of the ovaries and has not spread. Stage I is divided into stage IA, stage IB, and stage IC.                   - Stage IA: Cancer is found in one ovary.       - Stage IB: Cancer is found in both ovaries.       - Stage IC: Cancer is found in one or both ovaries and one of the following is true:                           - cancer is found on the outside surface of one or both ovaries; or          - the capsule (outer covering) of the tumor has ruptured (broken open); or           - cancer cells are found in fluid that has collected in the abdomen; or          - cancer cells are found in washings of the peritoneal cavity (the body cavity that contains most of the organs in the abdomen).                                 -  Stage II: In stage II, cancer is found in one or both ovaries and has spread into other areas of the pelvis. Stage II is divided into stage IIA, stage IIB, and stage IIC.                   - Stage IIA: Cancer has spread to the uterus and/or the fallopian tubes (the long slender tubes through which eggs pass from the ovaries to the uterus).        - Stage IIB: Cancer has spread to other tissue within the pelvis such as the bladder, rectum, or vagina.        - Stage IIC: Cancer has spread to the uterus and/or fallopian tubes and/or other tissue within the pelvis and one of the following is true:                           - cancer is found on the outside surface of one or both ovaries; or          - the capsule (outer covering) of the tumor has ruptured (broken open); or           - cancer cells are found in fluid that has collected in the abdomen; or          - cancer cells are found in washings of the peritoneal cavity (the body cavity that contains most of the organs in the abdomen).                                 -  Stage III: In stage III, cancer is found in one or both ovaries and has spread to other parts of the abdomen. Cancer that has spread to the surface of the liver is also stage III disease. Stage III is divided into stage IIIA, stage IIIB, and stage IIIC:                   - Stage IIIA: The tumor is found in the pelvis only, but cancer cells that can only be seen with a microscope have spread to the surface of the peritoneum (tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers most of the organs in the abdomen) or to the small bowel.        - Stage IIIB: Cancer has spread to the peritoneum and is 2 centimeters or smaller in diameter.       - Stage IIIC: Cancer has spread to the peritoneum and is larger than 2 centimeters in diameter and/or has spread to lymph nodes in the abdomen.                -  Stage IV: In stage IV, cancer is found in one or both ovaries and has metastasized (spread) beyond the abdomen to other parts of the body. Cancer that has spread to tissues in the liver is also stage IV disease.              Childhood extragonadal extracranial germ cell tumors            -  Stage I: In stage I, the cancer is in one place and can be completely removed by surgery. For tumors in the sacrum or coccyx (bottom part of the spine), the sacrum and coccyx are completely removed by surgery. Tumor marker levels return to normal after surgery.      -  Stage II: In stage II, the cancer has spread to the capsule (outer covering) and/or lymph nodes. The cancer is not completely removed by surgery and the cancer remaining after surgery can be seen with a microscope only. Tumor marker levels do not return to normal after surgery or increase.     -  Stage III: In stage III, one of the following is true:                  - The cancer is not completely removed by surgery. The cancer remaining after surgery can be seen without a microscope.       - The cancer has spread to lymph nodes and is larger than 2 centimeters in diameter.                -  Stage IV: In stage IV, the cancer has spread to distant parts of the body, including the liver, brain, bone, or lung."
982,What is (are) Gout ?,"Gout is a common, painful form of arthritis. It causes swollen, red, hot and stiff joints.    Gout happens when uric acid builds up in your body. Uric acid comes from the breakdown of substances called purines. Purines are in your body's tissues and in foods, such as liver, dried beans and peas, and anchovies. Normally, uric acid dissolves in the blood. It passes through the kidneys and out of the body in urine. But sometimes uric acid can build up and form needle-like crystals. When they form in your joints, it is very painful. The crystals can also cause kidney stones.    Often, gout first attacks your big toe. It can also attack ankles, heels, knees, wrists, fingers, and elbows. At first, gout attacks usually get better in days. Eventually, attacks last longer and happen more often.    You are more likely to get gout if you       - Are a man    - Have family member with gout    - Are overweight    - Drink alcohol    - Eat too many foods rich in purines       Gout can be hard to diagnose. Your doctor may take a sample of fluid from an inflamed joint to look for crystals. You can treat gout with medicines.    Pseudogout has similar symptoms and is sometimes confused with gout. However, it is caused by calcium phosphate, not uric acid.    NIH: National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases"
983,What is (are) Taste and Smell Disorders ?,"Our senses of taste and smell give us great pleasure. Taste helps us enjoy food and beverages. Smell lets us enjoy the scents and fragrances like roses or coffee. Taste and smell also protect us, letting us know when food has gone bad or when there is a gas leak. They make us want to eat, ensuring we get the nutrition we need.     People with taste disorders may taste things that aren't there, may not be able to tell the difference in tastes, or can't taste at all. People with smell disorders may lose their sense of smell, or things may smell different. A smell they once enjoyed may now smell bad to them.     Many illnesses and injuries can cause taste and smell disorders, including colds and head injuries. Some drugs can also affect taste and smell. Most people lose some ability to taste and smell as they get older. Treatment varies, depending on the problem and its cause.     NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
984,What are the symptoms of Legius syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Legius syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Legius syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the sternum 5% Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Axillary freckling - Cafe-au-lait spot - Epicanthus - High palate - Hypertelorism - Low posterior hairline - Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears - Macrocephaly - Multiple lipomas - Muscular hypotonia - Neurofibromas - Ptosis - Short neck - Specific learning disability - Triangular face - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
985,What are the symptoms of Johnson Munson syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Johnson Munson syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Johnson Munson syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adactyly 90% Split foot 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% Abnormality of female external genitalia 50% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 50% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 50% Anonychia 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 50% Asymmetry of the thorax 50% Elbow dislocation 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Oligohydramnios 50% Patent ductus arteriosus 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 50% Toe syndactyly 50% Vaginal fistula 50% Aphalangy of hands and feet - Aphalangy of the hands - Aplasia of the phalanges of the toes - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hemivertebrae - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
986,How to diagnose Wilson Disease ?,"A health care provider may use several tests and exams to diagnose Wilson disease, including the following:
                
- medical and family history  - physical exam  - blood tests  - urine tests  - liver biopsy  - imaging tests
                
Health care providers typically see the same symptoms of Wilson disease in other conditions, and the symptoms of Wilson disease do not occur together often, making the disease difficult to diagnose.
                
Medical and Family History
                
A health care provider may take a medical and family history to help diagnose Wilson disease.
                
Physical Exam
                
A physical exam may help diagnose Wilson disease. During a physical exam, a health care provider usually
                
- examines a patients body  - uses a stethoscope to listen to sounds related to the abdomen
                
A health care provider will use a special light called a slit lamp to look for Kayser-Fleischer rings in the eyes.
                
Blood Tests
                
A nurse or technician will draw blood samples at a health care providers office or a commercial facility and send the samples to a lab for analysis. A health care provider may
                
- perform liver enzyme or function testsblood tests that may indicate liver abnormalities.  - check copper levels in the blood. Since the copper is deposited into the organs and is not circulating in the blood, most people with Wilson disease have a lower-than-normal level of copper in the blood. In cases of acute liver failure caused by Wilson disease, the level of blood copper is often higher than normal.  - check the level of ceruloplasmina protein that carries copper in the bloodstream. Most people with Wilson disease have a lower-than-normal ceruloplasmin level.  - conduct genetic testing. A health care provider may recommend genetic testing in cases of a known family history of Wilson disease.
                
Urine Tests
                
24-hour urine collection. A patient will collect urine at home in a special container provided by a health care providers office or a commercial facility. A health care provider sends the sample to a lab for analysis. A 24-hour urine collection will show increased copper in the urine in most patients who have symptoms due to Wilson disease.
                
Liver Biopsy
                
A liver biopsy is a procedure that involves taking a small piece of liver tissue for examination with a microscope for signs of damage or disease. The health care provider may ask the patient to stop taking certain medications temporarily before the liver biopsy. He or she may also ask the patient to fasteat or drink nothingfor 8 hours before the procedure.
                
During the procedure, the patient lies on a table, right hand resting above the head. The health care provider applies a local anesthetic to the area where he or she will insert the biopsy needle. If needed, a health care provider will also give sedatives and pain medication. The health care provider uses the needle to take a small piece of liver tissue. He or she may use ultrasound, computerized tomography scans, or other imaging techniques to guide the needle. After the biopsy, the patient must lie on the right side for up to 2 hours and is monitored an additional 2 to 4 hours before being sent home.
                
A pathologista doctor who specializes in diagnosing diseasesexamines the liver tissue in a lab. The test can show cirrhosis of the liver. Sometimes the liver biopsy will show copper buildup in the liver cells; however, the results can vary because the copper does not always deposit evenly into the liver. Therefore, health care providers often find it more useful to analyze a piece of liver tissue for copper content. Most patients with Wilson disease have high levels of copper in the liver tissue when compared with carriers or with people who do not have Wilson disease.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Liver Biopsy.
                
Imaging Tests
                
A health care provider may order imaging tests to evaluate brain abnormalities in patients who have nervous system symptoms often seen with Wilson disease, or in patients diagnosed with Wilson disease. Health care providers do not use brain imaging tests to diagnose Wilson disease, though certain findings may suggest the patient has the disease.
                
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). An MRI is a test that takes pictures of the bodys internal organs and soft tissues without using x rays. A specially trained technician performs the procedure in an outpatient center or a hospital, and a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaginginterprets the images. The patient does not need anesthesia, though people with a fear of confined spaces may receive light sedation, taken by mouth. An MRI may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. With most MRI machines, the patient will lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device that may be open ended or closed at one end. Some machines allow the patient to lie in a more open space. The technician will take a sequence of images from different angles to create a detailed picture of the brain. During sequencing, the patient will hear loud mechanical knocking and humming noises. MRI can show if other diseases or conditions are causing the patients neurological symptoms.
                
Computerized tomography (CT) scan. A CT scan uses a combination of x rays and computer technology to create images. For a CT scan, a health care provider may give the patient a solution to drink and an injection of contrast medium. CT scans require the patient to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where a technician takes the x rays. An x-ray technician performs the procedure in an outpatient center or a hospital. A radiologist interprets the images. The patient does not need anesthesia. A CT scan can show if other diseases or conditions are causing the patients neurological symptoms."
987,How to diagnose Chronic Myeloproliferative Neoplasms ?,"Tests that examine the blood and bone marrow are used to detect (find) and diagnose chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Complete blood count (CBC) with differential : A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:                - The number of red blood cells and platelets.       - The number and type of white blood cells.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.       - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.              -   Peripheral blood smear : A procedure in which a sample of blood is checked for the following:                - Whether there are red blood cells shaped like teardrops.      - The number and kinds of white blood cells.      - The number of platelets.      - Whether there are blast cells.              -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease.    -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow, blood, and bone under a microscope to look for abnormal cells.    -   Cytogenetic analysis : A test in which cells in a sample of blood or bone marrow are viewed under a microscope to look for certain changes in the chromosomes. Certain diseases or disorders may be diagnosed or ruled out based on the chromosomal changes.    -   Gene mutation test: A laboratory test done on a bone marrow or blood sample to check for mutations in  JAK2 ,  MPL , or  CALR genes. A JAK2 gene mutation is often found in patients with polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, or primary myelofibrosis. MPL or CALR gene mutations are found in patients with essential thrombocythemia or primary myelofibrosis."
988,What is (are) Rh Incompatibility ?,"There are four major blood types: A, B, O, and AB. The types are based on substances on the surface of the blood cells. Another blood type is called Rh. Rh factor is a protein on red blood cells. Most people are Rh-positive; they have Rh factor. Rh-negative people don't have it. Rh factor is inherited though genes.    When you're pregnant, blood from your baby can cross into your bloodstream, especially during delivery. If you're Rh-negative and your baby is Rh-positive, your body will react to the baby's blood as a foreign substance. It will create antibodies (proteins) against the baby's blood. These antibodies usually don't cause problems during a first pregnancy.    But Rh incompatibility may cause problems in later pregnancies, if the baby is Rh-positive. This is because the antibodies stay in your body once they have formed. The antibodies can cross the placenta and attack the baby's red blood cells. The baby could get Rh disease, a serious condition that can cause a serious type of anemia.    Blood tests can tell whether you have Rh factor and whether your body has made antibodies. Injections of a medicine called Rh immune globulin can keep your body from making Rh antibodies. It helps prevent the problems of Rh incompatibility. If treatment is needed for the baby, it can include supplements to help the body to make red blood cells and blood transfusions.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
989,What is (are) LCHAD deficiency ?,"LCHAD deficiency, or long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency, is a mitochondrial condition that prevents the body from converting certain fats to energy, particularly during periods without food (fasting). Signs and symptoms typically appear during infancy or early childhood and can include feeding difficulties, lack of energy, low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), weak muscle tone (hypotonia), liver problems, and abnormalities in the retina. Later in childhood, people with this condition may experience muscle pain, breakdown of muscle tissue, and peripheral neuropathy. Individuals with LCHAD deficiency are also at risk for serious heart problems, breathing difficulties, coma, and sudden death. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is caused by mutations in the HADHA gene.[OMIM]"
990,What are the symptoms of Menkes disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Menkes disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Menkes disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Abnormality of the palate 90% Aneurysm 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 90% Developmental regression 90% Dry skin 90% Feeding difficulties in infancy 90% Full cheeks 90% Hyperextensible skin 90% Hypertonia 90% Hypopigmentation of hair 90% Intracranial hemorrhage 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Microcephaly 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Pectus excavatum 90% Seizures 90% Umbilical hernia 90% Woolly hair 90% Abnormality of the carotid arteries 50% Abnormality of the liver 50% Arterial stenosis 50% Atypical scarring of skin 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Exostoses 50% Malabsorption 50% Mask-like facies 50% Muscle weakness 50% Narrow chest 50% Nausea and vomiting 50% Prominent occiput 50% Thickened skin 50% Venous insufficiency 50% Wormian bones 50% Bladder diverticulum 7.5% Bowing of the long bones 7.5% Chondrocalcinosis 7.5% Chorea 7.5% Gastrointestinal hemorrhage 7.5% Hypoglycemia 7.5% Hypothermia 7.5% Intrauterine growth retardation 7.5% Osteomyelitis 7.5% Recurrent fractures 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Sepsis 7.5% Spontaneous hematomas 7.5% Tarsal synostosis 7.5% Abnormality of the face - Brachycephaly - Cutis laxa - Death in childhood - Hypopigmentation of the skin - Intellectual disability - Joint laxity - Metaphyseal spurs - Metaphyseal widening - Osteoporosis - Short stature - Sparse hair - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
991,What is (are) Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis ?,"The two types of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysisalso called CAPDand automated peritoneal dialysiswhich doctors sometimes call APD or continuous cycler-assisted peritoneal dialysis. After learning about the types of peritoneal dialysis, you can choose the type that best fits your schedule and lifestyle. If one schedule or type of peritoneal dialysis does not suit you, you can talk with your doctor about trying another type.
                
- Continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis does not require a machine. You can do it in any clean, well-lit place. The time period that the dialysis solution is in your belly is called the dwell time. With continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis, the dialysis solution stays in your belly for a dwell time of 4 to 6 hours, or more. Each exchange takes about 30 to 40 minutes. During an exchange, you can read, talk, watch television, or sleep. Usually, you change the dialysis solution at least four times a day and sleep with solution in your belly at night. You do not have to wake up and perform exchanges during the night.  - Automated peritoneal dialysis uses a machine called a cycler to fill and empty your belly three to five times during the night while you sleep. In the morning, you begin one exchange with a daylong dwell time. You may do an additional exchange around the middle of the afternoon without the cycler to increase the amount of waste removed and reduce the amount of fluid left behind in your body.
                
If you weigh more than 175 pounds or if your peritoneum filters wastes slowly, you may need a combination of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and automated peritoneal dialysis. For example, some people use a cycler at night and perform one exchange during the day. Your health care team will help you determine the best schedule for you."
992,Is Romano-Ward syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is typically inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. A small percentage of cases result from new mutations in one of the genes described above. These cases occur in people with no history of Romano-Ward syndrome in their family."
993,Is Mabry syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
994,What is (are) HIV/AIDS and Infections ?,"Having HIV/AIDS weakens your body's immune system. Your immune system normally fights germs that enter your body. When HIV/AIDS makes it weak, it can't fight germs well. This can lead to serious infections that don't often affect healthy people. These are called opportunistic infections (OIs).    There are many types of OIs. Tuberculosis and a serious related disease, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) are bacterial infections. Viral infections include cytomegalovirus (CMV) and hepatitis C. Fungi cause thrush (candidiasis), cryptococcal meningitis, pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) and histoplasmosis, and parasites cause crypto (cryptosporidiosis) and toxo (toxoplasmosis).    Having HIV/AIDS can make any infection harder to treat. People with AIDS are also more likely to suffer complications of common illnesses such as the flu.     The good news is that you can help prevent infections by taking your HIV/AIDS medicines. Other things that can help include practicing safe sex, washing your hands well and often and cooking your food well."
995,What are the treatments for Bloom syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Bloom syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Bloom's Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Bloom syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Short Stature   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
996,What are the symptoms of Northern epilepsy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Northern epilepsy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Northern epilepsy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Cerebral atrophy - Curvilinear intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material - Delayed speech and language development - Developmental regression - EEG abnormality - Increased neuronal autofluorescent lipopigment - Myoclonus - Progressive visual loss - Seizures - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
997,What is the outlook for Gestational Trophoblastic Disease ?,"Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. Gestational trophoblastic disease usually can be cured. Treatment and prognosis depend on the following:         - The type of GTD.    - Whether the tumor has spread to the uterus, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body.    - The number of tumors and where they are in the body.    - The size of the largest tumor.    - The level of -hCG in the blood.    - How soon the tumor was diagnosed after the pregnancy began.    - Whether GTD occurred after a molar pregnancy, miscarriage, or normal pregnancy.    - Previous treatment for gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.        Treatment options also depend on whether the woman wishes to become pregnant in the future."
998,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Brain and Spinal Tumors ?,"Scientists continue to investigate ways to better understand, diagnose, and treat CNS tumors. Experimental treatment options may include new drugs, gene therapy, surgery , radiation, biologic modulators that enhance the body's overall immune system to recognize and fight cancer cells, and a combination of therapies. Of particular interest to scientists is the development of tailored therapeutics--involving a combination of targeted agents that use different molecules to reduce tumor gene activity and suppress uncontrolled growth by killing or reducing the production of tumor cells--to treat tumors based on their genetic makeup. Researchers continue to search for additional clinical biomarkers (molecules or other substances in the blood or tissue that can be used to diagnose or monitor a particular disorder) of CNS tumors. Other researchers are testing different drugs and molecules to see if they can modulate the normal activity of the blood-brain barrier and better target tumor cells and associated blood vessels. Also under investigation are ways to improve drug delivery to the tumor and to prevent the side-effects of cancer treatments."
999,What are the symptoms of Neutrophil-specific granule deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Neutrophil-specific granule deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Neutrophil-specific granule deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absent neutrophil specific granules - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hyposegmentation of neutrophil nuclei - Recurrent infections - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1000,What are the symptoms of Gupta Patton syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Gupta Patton syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Gupta Patton syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anotia - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the middle ear - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Conductive hearing impairment - Facial asymmetry - Microtia - Wide mouth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1001,How to diagnose Heart Failure ?,"Your doctor will diagnose heart failure based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results. The signs and symptoms of heart failure also are common in other conditions. Thus, your doctor will:
                
Find out whether you have a disease or condition that can cause heart failure, such as coronary heart disease (CHD), high blood pressure, or diabetes
                
Rule out other causes of your symptoms
                
Find any damage to your heart and check how well your heart pumps blood
                
Early diagnosis and treatment can help people who have heart failure live longer, more active lives.
                
Medical and Family Histories
                
Your doctor will ask whether you or others in your family have or have had a disease or condition that can cause heart failure.
                
Your doctor also will ask about your symptoms. He or she will want to know which symptoms you have, when they occur, how long you've had them, and how severe they are. Your answers will help show whether and how much your symptoms limit your daily routine.
                
Physical Exam
                
During the physical exam, your doctor will:
                
Listen to your heart for sounds that aren't normal
                
Listen to your lungs for the sounds of extra fluid buildup
                
Look for swelling in your ankles, feet, legs, abdomen, and the veins in your neck
                
Diagnostic Tests
                
No single test can diagnose heart failure. If you have signs and symptoms of heart failure, your doctor may recommend one or more tests.
                
Your doctor also may refer you to a cardiologist. A cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart diseases and conditions.
                
EKG (Electrocardiogram)
                
An EKG is a simple, painless test that detects and records the heart's electrical activity. The test shows how fast your heart is beating and its rhythm (steady or irregular). An EKG also records the strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through your heart.
                
An EKG may show whether the walls in your heart's pumping chambers are thicker than normal. Thicker walls can make it harder for your heart to pump blood. An EKG also can show signs of a previous or current heart attack.
                
Chest X Ray
                
A chest x raytakes pictures of the structures inside your chest, such as your heart, lungs, and blood vessels. This test can show whether your heart is enlarged, you have fluid in your lungs, or you have lung disease.
                
BNP Blood Test
                
This test checks the level of a hormone in your blood called BNP. The level of this hormone rises during heart failure.
                
Echocardiography
                
Echocardiography (echo) uses sound waves to create a moving picture of your heart. The test shows the size and shape of your heart and how well your heart chambers and valves work.
                
Echo also can identify areas of poor blood flow to the heart, areas of heart muscle that aren't contracting normally, and heart muscle damage caused by lack of blood flow.
                
Echo might be done before and after a stress test (see below). A stress echo can show how well blood is flowing through your heart. The test also can show how well your heart pumps blood when it beats.
                
Doppler Ultrasound
                
A Doppler ultrasound uses sound waves to measure the speed and direction of blood flow. This test often is done with echo to give a more complete picture of blood flow to the heart and lungs.
                
Doctors often use Doppler ultrasound to help diagnose right-side heart failure.
                
Holter Monitor
                
A Holter monitor records your heart's electrical activity for a full 24- or 48-hour period, while you go about your normal daily routine.
                
You wear small patches called electrodes on your chest. Wires connect the patches to a small, portable recorder. The recorder can be clipped to a belt, kept in a pocket, or hung around your neck.
                
Nuclear Heart Scan
                
A nuclear heart scan shows how well blood is flowing through your heart and how much blood is reaching your heart muscle.
                
During a nuclear heart scan, a safe, radioactive substance called a tracer is injected into your bloodstream through a vein. The tracer travels to your heart and releases energy. Special cameras outside of your body detect the energy and use it to create pictures of your heart.
                
A nuclear heart scan can show where the heart muscle is healthy and where it's damaged.
                
A positron emission tomography (PET) scan is a type of nuclear heart scan. It shows the level of chemical activity in areas of your heart. This test can help your doctor see whether enough blood is flowing to these areas. A PET scan can show blood flow problems that other tests might not detect.
                
Cardiac Catheterization
                
During cardiac catheterization (KATH-eh-ter-ih-ZA-shun), a long, thin, flexible tube called a catheter is put into a blood vessel in your arm, groin (upper thigh), or neck and threaded to your heart. This allows your doctor to look inside your coronary (heart) arteries.
                
During this procedure, your doctor can check the pressure and blood flow in your heart chambers, collect blood samples, and use x rays to look at your coronary arteries.
                
Coronary Angiography
                
Coronary angiography (an-jee-OG-rah-fee) usually is done with cardiac catheterization. A dye that can be seen on x ray is injected into your bloodstream through the tip of the catheter.
                
The dye allows your doctor to see the flow of blood to your heart muscle. Angiography also shows how well your heart is pumping.
                
Stress Test
                
Some heart problems are easier to diagnose when your heart is working hard and beating fast. During stress testing, you exercise to make your heart work hard and beat fast.
                
You may walk or run on a treadmill or pedal a bicycle. If you can't exercise, you may be given medicine to raise your heart rate.
                
Heart tests, such as nuclear heart scanning and echo, often are done during stress testing.
                
Cardiac MRI
                
Cardiac MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) uses radio waves, magnets, and a computer to create pictures of your heart as it's beating. The test produces both still and moving pictures of your heart and major blood vessels.
                
A cardiac MRI can show whether parts of your heart are damaged. Doctors also have used MRI in research studies to find early signs of heart failure, even before symptoms appear.
                
Thyroid Function Tests
                
Thyroid function tests show how well your thyroid gland is working. These tests include blood tests, imaging tests, and tests to stimulate the thyroid. Having too much or too little thyroid hormone in the blood can lead to heart failure."
1002,What are the symptoms of Noonan-like syndrome with loose anagen hair ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Noonan-like syndrome with loose anagen hair? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Noonan-like syndrome with loose anagen hair. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Low posterior hairline 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Short nose 90% Short stature 90% Webbed neck 90% Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 50% Anteverted nares 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 50% Deep philtrum 50% Epicanthus 50% Hydrocephalus 50% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 50% Macrotia 50% Pectus excavatum 50% Abnormality of the elbow 7.5% Abnormality of the fingernails 7.5% Abnormality of the intervertebral disk 7.5% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Carious teeth 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hypertelorism 7.5% Hypoplastic toenails 7.5% Thick lower lip vermilion 7.5% Thin vermilion border 7.5% Eczema 5% Ichthyosis 5% Nasal speech 5% Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hyperactivity - Intellectual disability - Loose anagen hair - Low-set ears - Macrocephaly - Posteriorly rotated ears - Prominent forehead - Pulmonic stenosis - Short neck - Sparse scalp hair - Strabismus - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1003,What causes Coffin-Siris syndrome ?,"What causes Coffin-Siris syndrome? Coffin-Siris syndrome is caused by a change (mutation) in either the ARID1A, ARID1B, SMARCA4, SMARCB1, or SMARCE1 gene. Exactly how these gene mutations result in the symptoms of Coffin-Siris syndrome is not known, however it is thought that the mutations affect how genetic material is packaged in the cell. Coffin-Siris syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition; as only one gene mutation is needed to cause the syndrome. It usually occurs for the first time in a family due to a new mutation.  In some cases, no genetic mutation can be identified and the cause of Coffin-Siris syndrome in the family remains unknown."
1004,What are the symptoms of Intestinal Pseudo-obstruction ?,"Intestinal pseudo-obstruction symptoms may include
                
- abdominal swelling or bloating, also called distension  - abdominal pain  - nausea  - vomiting  - constipation  - diarrhea
                
Over time, the condition can cause malnutrition, bacterial overgrowth in the intestines, and weight loss. Malnutrition is a condition that develops when the body does not get the right amount of the vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients it needs to maintain healthy tissues and organ function.
                
Some people develop problems with their esophagus, stomach, or bladder."
1005,What is (are) Parasites - Schistosomiasis ?,"Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic worms. Infection with Schistosoma mansoni, S. haematobium, and S. japonicum causes illness in humans; less commonly, S. mekongi and S. intercalatum can cause disease. Although the worms that cause schistosomiasis are not found in the United States, more than 200 million people are infected worldwide."
1006,What are the symptoms of Microphthalmia syndromic 5 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Microphthalmia syndromic 5? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microphthalmia syndromic 5. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cleft palate 5% Cryptorchidism 5% Ectopic posterior pituitary 5% Micropenis 5% Short stature 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cataract - Coloboma - Joint laxity - Microcornea - Microphthalmia - Muscular hypotonia - Retinal dystrophy - Seizures - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1007,What are the treatments for erythrokeratodermia variabilis et progressiva ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of EKVP:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Erythrokeratodermia variabilis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1008,What are the symptoms of Anterior polar cataract 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Anterior polar cataract 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Anterior polar cataract 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anterior polar cataract - Autosomal dominant inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1009,What is (are) Shock ?,"Shock happens when not enough blood and oxygen can get to your organs and tissues. It causes very low blood pressure and may be life threatening. It often happens along with a serious injury.     There are several kinds of shock. Hypovolemic shock happens when you lose a lot of blood or fluids. Causes include internal or external bleeding, dehydration, burns, and severe vomiting and/or diarrhea. Septic shock is caused by infections in the bloodstream. A severe allergic reaction can cause anaphylactic shock. An insect bite or sting might cause it. Cardiogenic shock happens when the heart cannot pump blood effectively. This may happen after a heart attack. Neurogenic shock is caused by damage to the nervous system.    Symptoms of shock include       - Confusion or lack of alertness    - Loss of consciousness    - Sudden and ongoing rapid heartbeat    - Sweating    - Pale skin    - A weak pulse    - Rapid breathing    - Decreased or no urine output    - Cool hands and feet       Shock is a life-threatening medical emergency and it is important to get help right away. Treatment of shock depends on the cause.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
1010,What is (are) Alzheimer's Caregiving ?,"Alzheimers disease is an illness of the brain. It causes large numbers of nerve cells in the brain to die. This affects a persons ability to remember things and think clearly. People with Alzheimers become forgetful and easily confused and may have a hard time concentrating. They may have trouble taking care of themselves and doing basic things like making meals, bathing, and getting dressed. Alzheimers varies from person to person. It can progress faster in some people than in others, and not everyone will have the same symptoms. In general, though, Alzheimers takes many years to develop, becoming increasingly severe over time. As the disease gets worse, people need more help. Eventually, they require total care. For a short overview of Alzheimers, see  Understanding Alzheimers Disease: What You Need to Know."
1011,Is Bart-Pumphrey syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1012,What are the treatments for Barth Syndrome ?,"There is no specific treatment for Barth syndrome. Bacterial infections caused by neutropenia can be effectively treated with antibiotics. The drug granulocyte colony stimulating factor, or GCSF, can stimulate white cell production by the bone marrow and help combat infection. Medicines may be prescribed to control heart problems. The dietary supplement carnitine has aided some children with Barth syndrome but in others it has caused increasing muscle weakness and even precipitated heart failure. Only careful dietary monitoring directed by a physician or nutritionist familiar with the disorder can ensure proper caloric and nutritional intake."
1013,How many people are affected by ethylmalonic encephalopathy ?,"About 30 individuals with this condition have been identified worldwide, mostly in Mediterranean and Arab populations. Although ethylmalonic encephalopathy appears to be very rare, researchers suggest that some cases have been misdiagnosed as other neurologic disorders."
1014,What is (are) Camurati-Engelmann disease ?,"Camurati-Engelmann disease is a genetic condition that mainly affects the bones. People with this disease have increased bone density, particularly affecting the long bones of the arms and legs. In some cases, the skull and hip bones are also affected. The thickened bones can lead to pain in the arms and legs, a waddling walk, muscle weakness, and extreme tiredness. The age at which affected individuals first experience symptoms varies greatly; however, most people with this condition develop pain or weakness by adolescence. Camurati-Engelmann disease is caused by a mutation in the TGFB1 gene which is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. In some instances, people have the gene mutation that causes Camurati-Engelmann disease but never develop the characteristic features of this condition. In others, features are present, but a mutation cannot be identified. These cases are referred to as Camurati-Engelmann disease type II.  Treatment for Camurati-Engelman disease depends on many factors including the signs and symptoms present in each person and the severity of the condition."
1015,What are the symptoms of Acrocephalopolydactylous dysplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Acrocephalopolydactylous dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Acrocephalopolydactylous dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Omphalocele 30% Pancreatic fibrosis 30% Abnormality of the pinna - Ascites - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Craniosynostosis - Cystic renal dysplasia - Enlarged kidneys - Epicanthus - Extrapulmonary sequestrum - Hepatic fibrosis - Hepatomegaly - Hypertelorism - Hypoplasia of the small intestine - Hypoplastic colon - Low-set ears - Micromelia - Oxycephaly - Phenotypic variability - Polysplenia - Postaxial hand polydactyly - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Short neck - Short nose - Upslanted palpebral fissure - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1016,What are the symptoms of Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency? The signs and symptoms of dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLD) deficiency can vary widely among affected people. Early-onset DLD deficiency typically appears in early infancy with decreased muscle tone (hypotonia), lethargy, and lactic acidosis. Lactic acidosis can cause nausea, vomiting, severe breathing problems, and an abnormal heartbeat. Symptoms typically occur in episodes that may be triggered by illness, injury, or other stresses on the body. Affected infants often do not survive their initial episode or may die within the first few years of life during a recurrent episode. Children who live beyond the first two to three years often have growth delays and neurological problems such as intellectual disability, spasticity, ataxia, and seizures. However, normal intellect has been reported in a few people with the early-onset form of DLD deficiency. Isolated liver involvement, which can range from hepatomegaly (enlarged liver) to life-threatening liver failure, can also occur in the newborn period, or as late as the 3rd decade of life. A few people with DLD deficiency have become affected later in childhood with ataxia and dystonia, with normal cognitive development. Rarely, affected people have muscle weakness (particularly during exercise) or a weakened heart muscle (cardiomyopathy). The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria 90% Cognitive impairment 50% Gait disturbance 50% Hepatomegaly 50% Microcephaly 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Hepatic failure 7.5% Hypoglycemia 7.5% Decreased liver function 5% Elevated hepatic transaminases 5% Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Dystonia - Encephalopathy - Feeding difficulties - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Lactic acidosis - Lethargy - Metabolic acidosis - Seizures - Variable expressivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1017,What is the outlook for Septo-Optic Dysplasia ?,The prognosis for individuals with SOD varies according to the presence and severity of symptoms.
1018,How to diagnose Graves' Disease ?,"Health care providers can sometimes diagnose Graves disease based only on a physical examination and a medical history. Blood tests and other diagnostic tests, such as the following, then confirm the diagnosis.
                
TSH test. The ultrasensitive TSH test is usually the first test performed. This test detects even tiny amounts of TSH in the blood and is the most accurate measure of thyroid activity available.
                
T3 and T4 test. Another blood test used to diagnose Graves disease measures T3 and T4 levels. In making a diagnosis, health care providers look for below-normal levels of TSH, normal to elevated levels of T4, and elevated levels of T3.
                
Because the combination of low TSH and high T3 and T4 can occur with other thyroid problems, health care providers may order other tests to finalize the diagnosis. The following two tests use small, safe doses of radioactive iodine because the thyroid uses iodine to make thyroid hormone.
                
Radioactive iodine uptake test. This test measures the amount of iodine the thyroid collects from the bloodstream. High levels of iodine uptake can indicate Graves disease.
                
Thyroid scan. This scan shows how and where iodine is distributed in the thyroid. With Graves disease the entire thyroid is involved, so the iodine shows up throughout the gland. Other causes of hyperthyroidism such as nodulessmall lumps in the glandshow a different pattern of iodine distribution.
                
TSI test. Health care providers may also recommend the TSI test, although this test usually isnt necessary to diagnose Graves disease. This test, also called a TSH antibody test, measures the level of TSI in the blood. Most people with Graves disease have this antibody, but people whose hyperthyroidism is caused by other conditions do not.
                
More information about testing for thyroid problems is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Thyroid Tests."
1019,What are the treatments for Occipital Neuralgia ?,"Treatment is generally symptomatic and includes massage and rest. In some cases, antidepressants may be used when the pain is particularly severe. Other treatments may include local nerve blocks and injections of steroids directly into the affected area."
1020,How many people are affected by autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy ?,ADVIRC is considered a rare disease. Its prevalence is unknown.
1021,What are the symptoms of Potato nose ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Potato nose? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Potato nose. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the nose - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1022,What is (are) Hanhart syndrome ?,"Hanhart syndrome is a rare condition that primarily affects the craniofacial region and the limbs (arms and legs). People affected by this condition are often born with a short, incompletely developed tongue; absent or partially missing fingers and/or toes; abnormalities of the arms and/or legs; and an extremely small jaw. The severity of these physical abnormalities varies greatly among affected people, and children with this condition often have some, but not all, of the symptoms. The cause of Hanhart syndrome is not fully understood. Treatment depends on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1023,What are the symptoms of Gastritis ?,"Some people who have gastritis have pain or discomfort in the upper part of the abdomenthe area between the chest and hips. However, many people with gastritis do not have any signs and symptoms. The relationship between gastritis and a person's symptoms is not clear. The term gastritis is sometimes mistakenly used to describe any symptoms of pain or discomfort in the upper abdomen.
                
When symptoms are present, they may include
                
- upper abdominal discomfort or pain  - nausea  - vomiting
                

                
Seek Help for Symptoms of Bleeding in the Stomach   Erosive gastritis may cause ulcers or erosions in the stomach lining that can bleed. Signs and symptoms of bleeding in the stomach include   - shortness of breath   - dizziness or feeling faint   - red blood in vomit   - black, tarry stools   - red blood in the stool   - weakness   - paleness    A person with any signs or symptoms of bleeding in the stomach should call or see a health care provider right away.   More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Bleeding in the Digestive Tract."
1024,What is (are) Stroke ?,There are two kinds of stroke. The most common kind of stroke is called ischemic stroke. It accounts for approximately 80 percent of all strokes. An ischemic stroke is caused by a blood clot that blocks or plugs a blood vessel in the brain. The other kind of stroke is called hemorrhagic stroke. A hemorrhagic stroke is caused by a blood vessel that breaks and bleeds into the brain.
1025,What are the symptoms of Polycystic kidney disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Polycystic kidney disease? Signs and symptoms vary greatly from person to person. But affected individuals typically develop multiple cysts in both kidneys, which impair their ability to filter waste products from the blood. Later in the disease, the cysts cause the kidneys to become enlarged and can lead to kidney failure. Cysts may also develop in other organs, particularly the liver. Frequent complications of polycystic kidney disease include dangerously high blood pressure (hypertension), severe pain in the back or sides, blood in the urine (hematuria), recurrent urinary tract infections, kidney stones, and heart valve abnormalities. People with this condition also have an increased risk an aortic aneurysm in the brain (an abnormal bulging of the large blood vessel at the base of the brain). Aneurysms can be life-threatening if they tear or rupture. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Polycystic kidney disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Polycystic kidney dysplasia 90% Anemia 50% Cystic liver disease 50% Hematuria 50% Hypertension 50% Nephrolithiasis 50% Proteinuria 50% Renal insufficiency 50% Abnormality of prenatal development or birth 7.5% Abnormality of the pancreas 7.5% Abnormality of the respiratory system 7.5% Aneurysm 7.5% Dilatation of the ascending aorta 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Recurrent fractures 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Sarcoma 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral aneurysm - Colonic diverticula - Hepatic cysts - Heterogeneous - Increased prevalence of valvular disease - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1026,What are the treatments for What I need to know about Gas ?,"You can try to treat gas on your own, before seeing your health care provider, if you think you have too much.
                
Swallowing less air and changing what you eat can help prevent or reduce gas. Try the following tips:
                
- Eat more slowly.  - If you smoke, quit or cut down.  - If you wear dentures, see your dentist and make sure your dentures fit correctly.  - Dont chew gum or suck on hard candies.  - Avoid carbonated drinks, such as soda and beer.  - Drink less fruit juice, especially apple juice and pear juice.  - Avoid or eat less of the foods that cause you to have gas.
                
Some over-the-counter medicines can help reduce gas:
                
- Taking alpha-galactosidase (Beano) when you eat beans, vegetables, and whole grains can reduce gas.  - Simethicone (Gas-X, Mylanta Gas) can relieve bloating and abdominal pain or discomfort caused by gas.  - If you are lactose intolerant, lactase tablets or liquid drops can help you digest milk and milk products. You can also find lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products at the grocery store.
                
Your health care provider may prescribe medicine to help relieve gas, especially if you have SIBO or IBS."
1027,What are the treatments for hidradenitis suppurativa ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of hidradenitis suppurativa:  - American Academy of Dermatology: Hidradenitis Suppurativa: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Outcome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hidradenitis suppurativa, familial   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1028,What is (are) Inclusion Body Myositis ?,"Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is one of a group of muscle diseases known as the inflammatory myopathies, which are characterized by chronic, progressive muscle inflammation accompanied by muscle weakness. The onset of muscle weakness in IBM is generally gradual (over months or years) and affects both proximal (close to the trunk of the body) and distal (further away from the trunk) muscles. Muscle weakness may affect only one side of the body. Falling and tripping are usually the first noticeable symptoms of IBM. For some individuals, the disorder begins with weakness in the wrists and fingers that causes difficulty with pinching, buttoning, and gripping objects. There may be weakness of the wrist and finger muscles and atrophy (thinning or loss of muscle bulk) of the forearm muscles and quadricep muscles in the legs. Difficulty swallowing occurs in approximately half of IBM cases. Symptoms of the disease usually begin after the age of 50, although the disease can occur earlier. IBM occurs more frequently in men than in women."
1029,"What are the symptoms of Epidermolysis bullosa simplex, Ogna type ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Epidermolysis bullosa simplex, Ogna type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Epidermolysis bullosa simplex, Ogna type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal blistering of the skin 90% Bruising susceptibility 90% Abnormality of the nail 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 50% Hyperkeratosis 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Onychogryposis of toenails - Skin fragility with non-scarring blistering - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1030,What is (are) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ?,"Squamous cell carcinoma is a cancer that arises from particular cells called squamous cells. Squamous cells are found in the outer layer of skin and in the mucous membranes, which are the moist tissues that line body cavities such as the airways and intestines. Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) develops in the mucous membranes of the mouth, nose, and throat.  HNSCC is classified by its location: it can occur in the mouth (oral cavity), the middle part of the throat near the mouth (oropharynx), the space behind the nose (nasal cavity and paranasal sinuses), the upper part of the throat near the nasal cavity (nasopharynx), the voicebox (larynx), or the lower part of the throat near the larynx (hypopharynx). Depending on the location, the cancer can cause abnormal patches or open sores (ulcers) in the mouth and throat, unusual bleeding or pain in the mouth, sinus congestion that does not clear, sore throat, earache, pain when swallowing or difficulty swallowing, a hoarse voice, difficulty breathing, or enlarged lymph nodes.  HNSCC can spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body, such as the lymph nodes or lungs. If it spreads, the cancer has a worse prognosis and can be fatal. About half of affected individuals survive more than five years after diagnosis."
1031,Is tetrasomy 18p inherited ?,"Tetrasomy 18p is usually not inherited. The chromosomal change responsible for the disorder typically occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) in a parent of the affected individual, usually the mother. Most affected individuals have no history of the disorder in their family. However, rare inherited cases of tetrasomy 18p have been reported."
1032,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tardive Dyskinesia ?,"The NINDS conducts and supports a broad range of research on movement disorders including tardive dyskinesia. The goals of this research are to improve understanding of these disorders and to discover ways to treat, prevent, and, ultimately, cure them."
1033,How to diagnose Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"How is dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency diagnosed? DPD deficiency may be diagnosed in various ways. In individuals with complete or profound DPD deficiency, laboratory testing can detect elevated levels of uracil and/or thymine in plasma or urine. Partial DPD deficiency is more difficult to detect, which has led to the development of a radioenzymatic test for the DPD enzyme. This test has remained the gold standard for diagnosing DPD deficiency even after the development of genetic testing for the condition, because of the complexity of the DPYD gene and the presence of multiple DNA sequence variations present in most affected individuals. Various types of cells and tissues can be examined this way. More recently, a rapid, noninvasive, and cost-effective breath test was developed. This test permits the evaluation of DPD activity (normal activity and partial or profound deficiency) before the administration of fluoropyrmidine drugs such as 5-FU."
1034,What causes Protein C deficiency ?,"What causes protein C deficiency? Protein C deficiency can be inherited or acquired later in life. Inherited protein C deficiency is caused by mutations in the gene that provides instructions for making protein C, called the PROC gene. These mutations disrupt the protein's ability to control blood clotting. If protein C cannot control blood clotting, abnormal blood clots may form. Acquired protein C deficiency may be caused by large blood clots, liver disease, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), infection (sepsis), and vitamin K deficiency. Treatment with warfarin or certain types of chemotherapy can also cause acquired protein C deficiency."
1035,What is (are) Gamma heavy chain disease ?,"Gamma heavy chain disease is characterized by the abnormal production of antibodies. Antibodies are made up of light chains and heavy chains. In this disorder, the heavy chain of the gamma antibody (IgG) is overproduced by the body.  Gamma heavy chain disease mainly affects older adults and is similar to aggressive malignant (cancerous) lymphoma. However, some people with this disorder have no symptoms. People with symptoms may respond to chemotherapy drugs, corticosteroids, and radiation therapy. Approximately one-third of individuals with gamma heavy chain disease are also diagnosed with an autoimmune disorder."
1036,What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 17 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 17? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 17. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aggressive behavior - Apraxia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bradykinesia - Broad-based gait - Cerebellar atrophy - Chorea - Confusion - Depression - Diffuse cerebral atrophy - Dysarthria - Dysmetria - Dysphagia - Dystonia - Frontal lobe dementia - Frontal release signs - Gait ataxia - Gaze-evoked nystagmus - Gliosis - Hallucinations - Impaired pursuit initiation and maintenance - Intention tremor - Lack of insight - Limb ataxia - Mutism - Myoclonus - Neuronal loss in central nervous system - Paranoia - Parkinsonism - Positive Romberg sign - Progressive - Rigidity - Seizures - Urinary incontinence - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1037,What is (are) familial adenomatous polyposis ?,"Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is an inherited disorder characterized by cancer of the large intestine (colon) and rectum. People with the classic type of familial adenomatous polyposis may begin to develop multiple noncancerous (benign) growths (polyps) in the colon as early as their teenage years. Unless the colon is removed, these polyps will become malignant (cancerous). The average age at which an individual develops colon cancer in classic familial adenomatous polyposis is 39 years. Some people have a variant of the disorder, called attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis, in which polyp growth is delayed. The average age of colorectal cancer onset for attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis is 55 years.  In people with classic familial adenomatous polyposis, the number of polyps increases with age, and hundreds to thousands of polyps can develop in the colon. Also of particular significance are noncancerous growths called desmoid tumors. These fibrous tumors usually occur in the tissue covering the intestines and may be provoked by surgery to remove the colon. Desmoid tumors tend to recur after they are surgically removed. In both classic familial adenomatous polyposis and its attenuated variant, benign and malignant tumors are sometimes found in other places in the body, including the duodenum (a section of the small intestine), stomach, bones, skin, and other tissues. People who have colon polyps as well as growths outside the colon are sometimes described as having Gardner syndrome.  A milder type of familial adenomatous polyposis, called autosomal recessive familial adenomatous polyposis, has also been identified. People with the autosomal recessive type of this disorder have fewer polyps than those with the classic type. Fewer than 100 polyps typically develop, rather than hundreds or thousands. The autosomal recessive type of this disorder is caused by mutations in a different gene than the classic and attenuated types of familial adenomatous polyposis."
1038,What is the outlook for Paresthesia ?,The prognosis for those with paresthesia depends on the severity of the sensations and the associated disorders.
1039,Is Felty's syndrome inherited ?,"Is Felty's syndrome inherited? It has not been concluded that Felty's syndrome is an inherited condition; most individuals with Felty's syndrome have not had a history of the condition in their family. However, there have been a few reports of the condition appearing to be familial. Furthermore, although the condition itself may not be inherited, some of the risk factors associated with Felty's syndrome may have genetic components. One study found that a family history of rheumatoid arthritis was more common in patients with Felty's syndrome and that there was a strong association with HLA-DR4 (an immune system gene common in individuals with RA). The authors also stated that there was an increased frequency of another gene as well, suggesting that certain other immune system genes may interact with HLA-DR4 and contribute to individuals developing Felty's syndrome. In another report, the authors described a family in which 3 siblings had Felty's syndrome. All of the siblings shared a specific haplotype (a group of immune system genes that may be inherited together). The authors stated that they believe this supports the theory that multiple genetic factors are involved in family members being predisposed to Felty's syndrome. An earlier article described a family in which the mother and 2 of her 5 children had Felty's syndrome, which suggested autosomal dominant inheritance (which has not otherwise been reported)."
1040,Is Kniest dysplasia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
1041,Is Autoimmune hemolytic anemia inherited ?,"Is autoimmune hemolytic anemia inherited? In many cases, the cause of autoimmune hemolytic anemia remains unknown. Some researchers believe that there are multiple factors involved, including genetic and environmental influences (multifactorial). In a very small number of cases, autoimmune hemolytic anemia appears to run in families. In these cases, it appears to follow an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. If you have concerns about the specific risks in your family, we encourage you to consult with a genetics professional."
1042,What causes Microscopic polyangiitis ?,"What causes microscopic polyangiitis (MPA)? The cause of MPA is unknown. It is not contagious, does not usually run in families, and is not a form of cancer. The immune system is thought to play a critical role in the development of MPA.  It is thought that the immune system becomes overactive and causes blood vessel and tissue inflammation, which leads to organ damage. It is not known what causes the immune system to become overactive."
1043,"What are the symptoms of Early-onset myopathy, areflexia, respiratory distress and dysphagia ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Early-onset myopathy, areflexia, respiratory distress and dysphagia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Early-onset myopathy, areflexia, respiratory distress and dysphagia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Seizures 5% Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Camptodactyly of finger - Cleft palate - Congenital onset - Decreased fetal movement - Diaphragmatic paralysis - Difficulty running - Dysphagia - Facial palsy - Failure to thrive - High palate - Hyporeflexia - Motor delay - Nasal speech - Neonatal hypotonia - Pectus excavatum - Poor head control - Respiratory failure - Restrictive lung disease - Scoliosis - Talipes equinovarus - Variable expressivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1044,What are the symptoms of Santos Mateus Leal syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Santos Mateus Leal syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Santos Mateus Leal syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aganglionic megacolon 90% Foot polydactyly 90% Cognitive impairment 50% Hypertelorism 50% Postaxial hand polydactyly 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hand polydactyly - Hearing impairment - Unilateral renal agenesis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1045,What are the stages of Retinoblastoma ?,"Key Points
                    - After retinoblastoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the eye or to other parts of the body.     - The International Retinoblastoma Staging System (IRSS) may be used for staging retinoblastoma.          - Stage 0     - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV        - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - Treatment for retinoblastoma depends on whether it is intraocular (within the eye) or extraocular (outside the eye).          - Intraocular retinoblastoma      - Extraocular retinoblastoma (metastatic)
                
                
                    After retinoblastoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the eye or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the eye or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines whether retinoblastoma is only in the eye (intraocular) or has spread outside the eye (extraocular). It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The results of the tests used to diagnose cancer are often also used to stage the disease. (See the General Information section.)   The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process:         -   Bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones and is detected by a scanner that also takes a picture of the body. Areas of bone with cancer show up brighter in the picture because they take up more radioactive material than normal bone cells do.    -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow under a microscope to look for signs of cancer. A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy is done if the doctor thinks the cancer has spread outside of the eye.    -   Lumbar puncture : A procedure used to collect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the spinal column. This is done by placing a needle between two bones in the spine and into the CSF around the spinal cord and removing a sample of the fluid. The sample of CSF is checked under a microscope for signs that the cancer has spread to the brain and spinal cord. This procedure is also called an LP or spinal tap.
                
                
                    The International Retinoblastoma Staging System (IRSS) may be used for staging retinoblastoma.
                    There are several staging systems for retinoblastoma. The IRSS stages are based on how much cancer remains after surgery to remove the tumor and whether the cancer has spread.      Stage 0     The tumor is in the eye only. The eye has not been removed and the tumor was treated without surgery.        Stage I    The tumor is in the eye only. The eye has been removed and no cancer cells remain.        Stage II     The tumor is in the eye only. The eye has been removed and there are cancer cells left that can be seen only with a microscope.        Stage III     Stage III is divided into stages IIIa and IIIb:            - In stage IIIa, cancer has spread from the eye to tissues around the eye socket.     - In stage IIIb, cancer has spread from the eye to lymph nodes near the ear or in the neck.               Stage IV     Stage IV is divided into stages IVa and IVb:            - In stage IVa, cancer has spread to the blood but not to the brain or spinal cord. One or more tumors may have spread to other parts of the body such as the bone or liver.     - In stage IVb, cancer has spread to the brain or spinal cord. It also may have spread to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if retinoblastoma spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually retinoblastoma cells. The disease is metastatic retinoblastoma, not bone cancer.
                
                
                    Treatment for retinoblastoma depends on whether it is intraocular (within the eye) or extraocular (outside the eye).
                    Intraocular retinoblastoma     In intraocular retinoblastoma, cancer is found in one or both eyes and may be in the retina only or may also be in other parts of the eye such as the choroid, ciliary body, or part of the optic nerve. Cancer has not spread to tissues around the outside of the eye or to other parts of the body.        Extraocular retinoblastoma (metastatic)    In extraocular retinoblastoma, cancer has spread beyond the eye. It may be found in tissues around the eye (orbital retinoblastoma) or it may have spread to the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) or to other parts of the body such as the liver, bones, bone marrow, or lymph nodes."
1046,What are the symptoms of Brachydactyly type C ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Brachydactyly type C? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Brachydactyly type C. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cone-shaped epiphyses of the middle phalanges of the hand 90% Pseudoepiphyses of the 2nd finger 90% Pseudoepiphyses of the 3rd finger 90% Short 2nd finger 90% Short 3rd finger 90% Short middle phalanx of finger 90% Ulnar deviation of finger 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 75% Enlarged epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger 75% Enlarged epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger 75% Enlarged epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger 75% Enlarged epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger 75% Short 1st metacarpal 75% Triangular epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger 75% Triangular epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger 75% Triangular epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger 75% Triangular epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger 75% Triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 2nd finger 75% Triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 3rd finger 75% Triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger 75% Triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger 75% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Cone-shaped epiphysis 50% Short toe 50% Ulnar deviation of the 2nd finger 50% Ulnar deviation of the 3rd finger 50% Short stature 33% Delayed skeletal maturation 7.5% Symphalangism affecting the phalanges of the hand 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Talipes equinovalgus 7.5% Talipes equinovarus 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hypersegmentation of proximal phalanx of second finger - Hypersegmentation of proximal phalanx of third finger - Madelung deformity - Polydactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1047,What are the treatments for cutis laxa ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of cutis laxa:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: ATP6V0A2-Related Cutis Laxa  - Gene Review: Gene Review: ATP7A-Related Copper Transport Disorders  - Gene Review: Gene Review: EFEMP2-Related Cutis Laxa  - Gene Review: Gene Review: FBLN5-Related Cutis Laxa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Autosomal recessive cutis laxa type IA  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cutis laxa with osteodystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cutis laxa, X-linked  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cutis laxa, autosomal dominant  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Colon Diverticula (image)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Emphysema (image)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hernia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1048,Is Abetalipoproteinemia inherited ?,"How is abetalipoproteinemia inherited? Abetalipoproteinemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This means that to be affected, a person must have a mutation in both copies of the responsible gene in each cell. Affected people inherit one mutated copy of the gene from each parent, who is referred to as a carrier. Carriers of an autosomal recessive condition typically do not have any signs or symptoms (they are unaffected). When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier"
1049,"What are the symptoms of Radial hypoplasia, triphalangeal thumbs and hypospadias ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Radial hypoplasia, triphalangeal thumbs and hypospadias? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Radial hypoplasia, triphalangeal thumbs and hypospadias. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal dermatoglyphics 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 90% Mandibular prognathia 90% Micromelia 90% Triphalangeal thumb 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Diastema - Hypoplasia of the radius - Hypospadias - Nonopposable triphalangeal thumb - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1050,What are the treatments for Non-involuting congenital hemangioma ?,"How might non-involuting congenital hemangioma treated? Because non-involuting congenital hemangioma (NICH) is quite rare, there are no established guidelines for the treatment of this condition.  However, the authors of one article on NICH suggest that there is no risk for excessive bleeding during the removal of an NICH and it is unlikely to regrow after surgery.  Because NICH is a benign skin mark, surgery isn't necessary but can be considered to improve appearance of the skin."
1051,Is 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1052,What are the genetic changes related to mucopolysaccharidosis type IV ?,"Mutations in the GALNS and GLB1 genes cause MPS IV. These genes provide instructions for producing enzymes involved in the breakdown of large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). GAGs were originally called mucopolysaccharides, which is where this condition gets its name. When MPS IV is caused by mutations in the GALNS gene it is called MPS IV type A (MPS IVA), and when it is caused by mutations in the GLB1 gene it is called MPS IV type B (MPS IVB). In general, the two types of MPS IV cannot be distinguished by their signs and symptoms.  Mutations in the GALNS and GLB1 genes reduce or completely eliminate the activity of the enzymes produced from these genes. Without these enzymes, GAGs accumulate within cells, specifically inside the lysosomes. Lysosomes are compartments in the cell that break down and recycle different types of molecules. Conditions such as MPS IV that cause molecules to build up inside the lysosomes are called lysosomal storage disorders. In MPS IV, GAGs accumulate to toxic levels in many tissues and organs, particularly in the bones. The accumulation of GAGs causes the bone deformities in this disorder. Researchers believe that the buildup of GAGs may also cause the features of MPS IV by interfering with the functions of other proteins inside lysosomes and disrupting the movement of molecules inside the cell."
1053,What are the treatments for X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: X-Linked Dystonia-Parkinsonism Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Dystonia 3, torsion, X-linked   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1054,What are the stages of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - After lung cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the lungs or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for non-small cell lung cancer:         - Occult (hidden) stage     - Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)     - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage IIIA     - Stage IIIB     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After lung cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the lungs or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the lungs or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. Some of the tests used to diagnose non-small cell lung cancer are also used to stage the disease. (See the General Information section.)    Other tests and procedures that may be used in the staging process include the following:         -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the brain. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the brain and abdomen, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.    -   Radionuclide bone scan : A procedure to check if there are rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells, in the bone. A very small amount of radioactive material is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The radioactive material collects in the bones and is detected by a scanner.     -   Pulmonary function test (PFT): A test to see how well the lungs are working. It measures how much air the lungs can hold and how quickly air moves into and out of the lungs. It also measures how much oxygen is used and how much carbon dioxide is given off during breathing. This is also called lung function test.    -   Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS): A procedure in which an endoscope is inserted into the body. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. A probe at the end of the endoscope is used to bounce high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) off internal tissues or organs and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram. This procedure is also called endosonography. EUS may be used to guide fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy of the lung, lymph nodes, or other areas.     -   Mediastinoscopy : A surgical procedure to look at the organs, tissues, and lymph nodes between the lungs for abnormal areas. An incision (cut) is made at the top of the breastbone and a mediastinoscope is inserted into the chest. A mediastinoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove tissue or lymph node samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of cancer.    -   Anterior mediastinotomy : A surgical procedure to look at the organs and tissues between the lungs and between the breastbone and heart for abnormal areas. An incision (cut) is made next to the breastbone and a mediastinoscope is inserted into the chest. A mediastinoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove tissue or lymph node samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of cancer. This is also called the Chamberlain procedure.    -  Lymph node biopsy : The removal of all or part of a lymph node. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells.     -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow, blood, and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow, blood, and bone under a microscope to look for signs of cancer.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if non-small cell lung cancer spreads to the brain, the cancer cells in the brain are actually lung cancer cells. The disease is metastatic lung cancer, not brain cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for non-small cell lung cancer:
                    Occult (hidden) stage    In the occult (hidden) stage, cancer cannot be seen by imaging or bronchoscopy. Cancer cells are found in sputum (mucus coughed up from the lungs) or bronchial washing (a sample of cells taken from inside the airways that lead to the lung). Cancer may have spread to other parts of the body.       Stage 0 (carcinoma in situ)    In stage 0, abnormal cells are found in the lining of the airways. These abnormal cells may become cancer and spread into nearby normal tissue. Stage 0 is also called carcinoma in situ.        Stage I     In stage I, cancer has formed. Stage I is divided into stages IA and IB:            -  Stage IA: The tumor is in the lung only and is 3 centimeters or smaller.     -  Stage IB: Cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes and one or more of the following is true:                  - The tumor is larger than 3 centimeters but not larger than 5 centimeters.       - Cancer has spread to the main bronchus and is at least 2 centimeters below where the trachea joins the bronchus.       - Cancer has spread to the innermost layer of the membrane that covers the lung.       - Part of the lung has collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung) in the area where the trachea joins the bronchus.                          Stage II    Stage II is divided into stages IIA and IIB. Stage IIA and IIB are each divided into two sections depending on the size of the tumor, where the tumor is found, and whether there is cancer in the lymph nodes.            -  Stage IIA:  (1) Cancer has spread to lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the tumor. The lymph nodes with cancer are within the lung or near the bronchus. Also, one or more of the following is true:                  - The tumor is not larger than 5 centimeters.       -  Cancer has spread to the main bronchus and is at least 2 centimeters below where the trachea joins the bronchus.       -  Cancer has spread to the innermost layer of the membrane that covers the lung.       - Part of the lung has collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung) in the area where the trachea joins the bronchus.            or  (2) Cancer has not spread to lymph nodes and one or more of the following is true:                  - The tumor is larger than 5 centimeters but not larger than 7 centimeters.       - Cancer has spread to the main bronchus and is at least 2 centimeters below where the trachea joins the bronchus.       - Cancer has spread to the innermost layer of the membrane that covers the lung.       - Part of the lung has collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung) in the area where the trachea joins the bronchus.                -  Stage IIB:  (1) Cancer has spread to nearby lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the tumor. The lymph nodes with cancer are within the lung or near the bronchus. Also, one or more of the following is true:                  - The tumor is larger than 5 centimeters but not larger than 7 centimeters.       - Cancer has spread to the main bronchus and is at least 2 centimeters below where the trachea joins the bronchus.       -  Cancer has spread to the innermost layer of the membrane that covers the lung.       - Part of the lung has collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung) in the area where the trachea joins the bronchus.             or (2) Cancer has not spread to lymph nodes and one or more of the following is true:                  - The tumor is larger than 7 centimeters.       - Cancer has spread to the main bronchus (and is less than 2 centimeters below where the trachea joins the bronchus), the chest wall, the diaphragm, or the nerve that controls the diaphragm.        - Cancer has spread to the membrane around the heart or lining the chest wall.       - The whole lung has collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung).       - There are one or more separate tumors in the same lobe of the lung.                         Stage IIIA     Stage IIIA is divided into three sections depending on the size of the tumor, where the tumor is found, and which lymph nodes have cancer (if any).     (1) Cancer has spread to lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the tumor. The lymph nodes with cancer are near the sternum (chest bone) or where the bronchus enters the lung. Also:            - The tumor may be any size.     - Part of the lung (where the trachea joins the bronchus) or the whole lung may have collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung).     - There may be one or more separate tumors in the same lobe of the lung.     - Cancer may have spread to any of the following:                  - Main bronchus, but not the area where the trachea joins the bronchus.       -  Chest wall.       -  Diaphragm and the nerve that controls it.       -  Membrane around the lung or lining the chest wall.       - Membrane around the heart.                        or       (2) Cancer has spread to lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the tumor. The lymph nodes with cancer are within the lung or near the bronchus. Also:            - The tumor may be any size.     - The whole lung may have collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung).     - There may be one or more separate tumors in any of the lobes of the lung with cancer.     - Cancer may have spread to any of the following:                  - Main bronchus, but not the area where the trachea joins the bronchus.       - Chest wall.       - Diaphragm and the nerve that controls it.       - Membrane around the lung or lining the chest wall.       - Heart or the membrane around it.       - Major blood vessels that lead to or from the heart.        - Trachea.       -  Esophagus.        - Nerve that controls the larynx (voice box).       -  Sternum (chest bone) or backbone.       -  Carina (where the trachea joins the bronchi).                        or       (3) Cancer has not spread to the lymph nodes and the tumor may be any size. Cancer has spread to any of the following:            - Heart.      - Major blood vessels that lead to or from the heart.      - Trachea.      - Esophagus.      - Nerve that controls the larynx (voice box).     - Sternum (chest bone) or backbone.      - Carina (where the trachea joins the bronchi).              Stage IIIB     Stage IIIB is divided into two sections depending on the size of the tumor, where the tumor is found, and which lymph nodes have cancer.     (1) Cancer has spread to lymph nodes above the collarbone or to lymph nodes on the opposite side of the chest as the tumor. Also:            - The tumor may be any size.     - Part of the lung (where the trachea joins the bronchus) or the whole lung may have collapsed or developed pneumonitis (inflammation of the lung).     - There may be one or more separate tumors in any of the lobes of the lung with cancer.     - Cancer may have spread to any of the following:                  - Main bronchus.       -  Chest wall.       -  Diaphragm and the nerve that controls it.       -  Membrane around the lung or lining the chest wall.       - Heart or the membrane around it.       - Major blood vessels that lead to or from the heart.       - Trachea.       -  Esophagus.       - Nerve that controls the larynx (voice box).       -  Sternum (chest bone) or backbone.       -  Carina (where the trachea joins the bronchi).                         or       (2) Cancer has spread to lymph nodes on the same side of the chest as the tumor. The lymph nodes with cancer are near the sternum (chest bone) or where the bronchus enters the lung. Also:            - The tumor may be any size.     - There may be separate tumors in different lobes of the same lung.     - Cancer has spread to any of the following:                  - Heart.        - Major blood vessels that lead to or from the heart.        - Trachea.        - Esophagus.       - Nerve that controls the larynx (voice box).       - Sternum (chest bone) or backbone.        - Carina (where the trachea joins the bronchi).                         Stage IV     In stage IV, the tumor may be any size and cancer may have spread to lymph nodes. One or more of the following is true:            - There are one or more tumors in both lungs.     - Cancer is found in fluid around the lungs or the heart.     - Cancer has spread to other parts of the body, such as the brain, liver, adrenal glands, kidneys, or bone."
1055,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Problems with Smell ?,"The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports basic and clinical investigations of smell and taste disorders at its laboratories in Bethesda, Md. and at universities and chemosensory research centers across the country. These chemosensory scientists are exploring how to - promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells   - understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste  - prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste   - develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders   - understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses.  promote the regeneration of sensory nerve cells understand the effects of the environment (such as gasoline fumes, chemicals, and extremes of humidity and temperature) on smell and taste prevent the effects of aging on smell and taste develop new diagnostic tests for taste and smell disorders understand associations between smell disorders and changes in diet and food preferences in the elderly or among people with chronic illnesses."
1056,What causes Progeria ?,"What genes are related to Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome? Mutations in the LMNA gene cause Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. The LMNA gene provides instructions for making a protein called lamin A. This protein plays an important role in determining the shape of the nucleus within cells. It is an essential scaffolding (supporting) component of the nuclear envelope, which is the membrane that surrounds the nucleus. Mutations that cause Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome result in the production of an abnormal version of the lamin A protein. The altered protein makes the nuclear envelope unstable and progressively damages the nucleus, making cells more likely to die prematurely. Researchers are working to determine how these changes lead to the characteristic features of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome."
1057,How to diagnose Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?,"Blood tests to check levels of liver enzymes are the first step in diagnosing PSC. Doctors confirm the diagnosis using cholangiography, which provides pictures of the bile ducts.
                
Cholangiography can be performed in the following ways:
                
-  Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). ERCP uses an endoscopea long, flexible, lighted tubethat goes down the mouth, beyond the stomach, and into the duodenum to reach an area in the digestive tract where dye can be injected into the bile ducts. X rays are taken when the dye is injected. ERCP also can be used to take a tissue sample or to treat blocked ducts. More information about ERCP is provided in the NIDDK health topic, ERCP (Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography).  -  Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography. This procedure involves inserting a needle through the skin and placing a thin tube into a duct in the liver. Dye is injected through the tube and x rays are taken.  -  Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). MRCP uses magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to obtain pictures of the bile ducts. MRI machines use radio waves and magnets to scan internal organs and tissues. MRCP does not involve using x rays or inserting instruments into the body. This safe and painless test is increasingly used for diagnosis.
                
Other testing may include ultrasound exams and a liver biopsy. Ultrasound uses sound waves to create images of organs inside the body. A biopsy involves removal of a small piece of tissue for examination with a microscope."
1058,What is (are) Testicular Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - Testicular cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of one or both testicles.    - Testicular cancer is the most common cancer in men aged 15 to 34 years.    - Testicular cancer can usually be cured.    - A condition called cryptorchidism (an undescended testicle) is a risk factor for testicular cancer.
                
                
                    Testicular cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of one or both testicles.
                    The testicles are 2 egg-shaped glands inside the scrotum (a sac of loose skin that lies directly below the penis). The testicles are held within the scrotum by the spermatic cord. The spermatic cord also contains the vas deferens and vessels and nerves of the testicles.     The testicles are the male sex glands and make testosterone and sperm. Germ cells in the testicles make immature sperm. These sperm travel through a network of tubules (tiny tubes) and larger tubes into the epididymis (a long coiled tube next to the testicles). This is where the sperm mature and are stored.   Almost all testicular cancers start in the germ cells. The two main types of testicular germ cell tumors are seminomas and nonseminomas.    See the PDQ summary on Testicular Cancer Treatment for more information about testicular cancer."
1059,What are the symptoms of Aceruloplasminemia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Aceruloplasminemia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Aceruloplasminemia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal renal physiology 90% Abnormality of iron homeostasis 90% Anemia 90% Chorea 90% Diabetes mellitus 90% Retinopathy 90% Tremor 90% Behavioral abnormality 50% Developmental regression 50% Hypertonia 50% Incoordination 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Memory impairment 7.5% Abnormality of extrapyramidal motor function - Adult onset - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blepharospasm - Cogwheel rigidity - Dementia - Dysarthria - Increased serum ferritin - Retinal degeneration - Scanning speech - Torticollis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1060,How many people are affected by hemophilia ?,"The two major forms of hemophilia occur much more commonly in males than in females. Hemophilia A is the most common type of the condition; 1 in 4,000 to 1 in 5,000 males worldwide are born with this disorder. Hemophilia B occurs in approximately 1 in 20,000 newborn males worldwide."
1061,What causes Multifocal choroiditis ?,"What causes multifocal choroiditis? Multifocal choroiditis occurs spontaneously and the cause is not currently known (idiopathic). It is possible that a bacterial or viral infection may trigger an immune response that causes the inflammation seen with MFC, though more research is needed in this area."
1062,What causes Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?,"Most UTIs are caused by bacteria that live in the bowel. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes the vast majority of UTIs. The urinary tract has several systems to prevent infection. The points where the ureters attach to the bladder act like one-way valves to prevent urine from backing up, or refluxing, toward the kidneys, and urination washes microbes out of the body. Immune defenses also prevent infection. But despite these safeguards, infections still occur. Certain bacteria have a strong ability to attach themselves to the lining of the urinary tract.
                
Children who often delay urination are more likely to develop UTIs. Regular urination helps keep the urinary tract sterile by flushing away bacteria. Holding in urine allows bacteria to grow. Producing too little urine because of inadequate fluid intake can also increase the risk of developing a UTI. Chronic constipationa condition in which a child has fewer than two bowel movements a weekcan add to the risk of developing a UTI. When the bowel is full of hard stool, it presses against the bladder and bladder neck, blocking the flow of urine and allowing bacteria to grow.
                
Some children develop UTIs because they are prone to such infections, just as other children are prone to getting coughs, colds, or ear infections."
1063,What is (are) N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency ?,"N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia to accumulate in the blood. Ammonia, which is formed when proteins are broken down in the body, is toxic if the levels become too high. The nervous system is especially sensitive to the effects of excess ammonia.  N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency may become evident in the first few days of life. An infant with this condition may be lacking in energy (lethargic) or unwilling to eat, and have a poorly controlled breathing rate or body temperature. Some babies with this disorder may experience seizures or unusual body movements, or go into a coma. Complications of N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency may include developmental delay and intellectual disability.  In some affected individuals, signs and symptoms of N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency are less severe, and do not appear until later in life. Some people with this form of the disorder cannot tolerate high-protein foods such as meat. They may experience sudden episodes of ammonia toxicity, resulting in vomiting, lack of coordination, confusion or coma, in response to illness or other stress."
1064,What are the treatments for Psoriasis ?,"For many people, natural treatments can help relieve the symptoms of psoriasis. There are many natural treatments you can try on your own, but you should never use them to replace the treatment your doctor prescribes. Some natural treatments you may want to try are - sunlight  - aloe  - fish oil  - Dead Sea salts  - cayenne. sunlight aloe fish oil Dead Sea salts cayenne."
1065,What is (are) Choosing a Doctor or Health Care Service ?,"We all want high-quality health care, but it's hard to know how to choose. There are many things to consider, including       - What your insurance covers    - Whether a health care provider or service is accredited    - The location of a service    - Hours that the service is available    - Whether you like a health care provider's personality        On this page you'll find information to help you choose a health care provider or service."
1066,What are the symptoms of X-linked magnesium deficiency with Epstein-Barr virus infection and neoplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked magnesium deficiency with Epstein-Barr virus infection and neoplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked magnesium deficiency with Epstein-Barr virus infection and neoplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Decreased number of CD4+ T cells - Decreased T cell activation - Immunodeficiency - Lymphoma - Recurrent viral infections - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1067,What is (are) Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ?,"Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is a disorder in which skeletal muscle and connective tissue, such as tendons and ligaments, are gradually replaced by bone (ossified). This condition leads to bone formation outside the skeleton (extra-skeletal or heterotopic bone) that restricts movement. This process generally becomes noticeable in early childhood, starting with the neck and shoulders and moving down the body and into the limbs. People with FOP are born with abnormal big toes (hallux valgus) which can be helpful in making the diagnosis. Trauma, such as a fall or invasive medical procedure, or a viral illness may trigger episodes of muscle swelling and inflammation (myositis). These flareups lasts for several days to months and often result in permanent bone growth in the injured area. FOP is almost always caused by a mutation at the same place in the ACVR1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This condition occurs in about 1 in 1,600,000 newborns and about 800 people worldwide are known to have FOP."
1068,What to do for Cushing's Syndrome ?,"- Cushing's syndrome is a disorder caused by prolonged exposure of the body's tissues to high levels of the hormone cortisol.  - Typical signs and symptoms of Cushing's syndrome include upper body obesity, a rounded face, skin that bruises easily and heals poorly, weakened bones, excess body hair growth and menstrual irregularities in women, and decreased fertility in men.  - Cushing's syndrome is caused by exposure to glucocorticoids, which are used to treat inflammatory diseases, or by the body's overproduction of cortisol, most often due to tumors of the pituitary gland or lung.  - Several tests are usually needed to diagnosis Cushing's syndrome, including urine, blood, and saliva tests. Other tests help find the cause of the syndrome.  - Treatment depends on the specific reason for excess cortisol and may include surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, or the use of cortisol-inhibiting drugs."
1069,What are the treatments for Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum ?,"There is no standard course of treatment for ACC. Treatment usually involves management of symptoms and seizures if they occur. Associated difficulties are much more manageable with early recognition and therapy, especially therapies focusing on left/right coordination. Early diagnosis and interventions are currently the best treatments to improve social and developmental outcomes."
1070,What is (are) Polycystic Kidney Disease ?,"Autosomal dominant PKD is the most common form of PKD and the most common inherited disorder of the kidneys.3 The term autosomal dominant means a child can get the disorder by inheriting the gene mutation from only one parent. Each child of a parent with an autosomal dominant mutation has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the mutated gene. About 10 percent of autosomal dominant PKD cases occur spontaneously.4
                
The following chart shows the chance of inheriting an autosomal dominant gene mutation:
                

                

                
Health care providers identify most cases of autosomal dominant PKD between the ages of 30 and 50.4 For this reason, health care providers often call autosomal dominant PKD adult PKD. However, the onset of kidney damage and how quickly the disorder progresses varies. In some cases, cysts may form earlier in life and grow quickly, causing symptoms in childhood.
                

                

                
The cysts grow out of nephrons, the tiny filtering units inside the kidneys. The cysts eventually separate from the nephrons and continue to enlarge. The kidneys enlarge along with the cystswhich can number in the thousandswhile roughly retaining their kidney shape. In fully developed autosomal dominant PKD, a cyst-filled kidney can weigh as much as 20 to 30 pounds."
1071,What is (are) Abdominal Pain ?,"Your abdomen extends from below your chest to your groin. Some people call it the stomach, but your abdomen contains many other important organs. Pain in the abdomen can come from any one of them. The pain may start somewhere else, such as your chest. Severe pain doesn't always mean a serious problem. Nor does mild pain mean a problem is not serious.     Call your healthcare provider if mild pain lasts a week or more or if you have pain with other symptoms. Get medical help immediately if       -  You have abdominal pain that is sudden and sharp    - You also have pain in your chest, neck or shoulder     -  You're vomiting blood or have blood in your stool     -  Your abdomen is stiff, hard and tender to touch     - You can't move your bowels, especially if you're also vomiting"
1072,What is (are) REN-related kidney disease ?,"REN-related kidney disease is an inherited condition that affects kidney function. This condition causes slowly progressive kidney disease that usually becomes apparent during childhood. As this condition progresses, the kidneys become less able to filter fluids and waste products from the body, resulting in kidney failure. Individuals with REN-related kidney disease typically require dialysis (to remove wastes from the blood) or a kidney transplant between ages 40 and 70.  People with REN-related kidney disease sometimes have low blood pressure. They may also have mildly increased levels of potassium in their blood (hyperkalemia). In childhood, people with REN-related kidney disease develop a shortage of red blood cells (anemia), which can cause pale skin, weakness, and fatigue. In this disorder, anemia is usually mild and begins to improve during adolescence.  Many individuals with this condition develop high blood levels of a waste product called uric acid. Normally, the kidneys remove uric acid from the blood and transfer it to urine so it can be excreted from the body. In REN-related kidney disease, the kidneys are unable to remove uric acid from the blood effectively. A buildup of uric acid can cause gout, which is a form of arthritis resulting from uric acid crystals in the joints. Individuals with REN-related kidney disease may begin to experience the signs and symptoms of gout during their twenties."
1073,What are the treatments for Hearing Loss ?,"Assistive Listening Devices  Assistive listening devices devices can help you hear in certain listening environments. These can include telephone and cell phone amplifying devices, smart phone or tablet ""apps,"" and closed circuit systems (induction coil loops) in places of worship, theaters, and auditoriums. TV listening systems help you listen to the television or the radio without being bothered by other noises around you. Some hearing aids can be plugged into televisions or stereos to help you hear better.  Cochlear Implant If your hearing loss is severe and of a certain type, your doctor may suggest that you talk to an otolaryngologist about a cochlear implant. An otolaryngologist is a surgeon who specializes in ear, nose, and throat diseases. A cochlear implant is a small electronic device that the surgeon places under the skin and behind the ear. The device picks up sounds, changes them to electrical signals, and sends them past the non-working part of the inner ear and on to the brain. Hearing through a cochlear implant sounds different from normal hearing, but it lets many people communicate orally in person and over the telephone, and perceive sounds in the environment."
1074,What are the symptoms of Lung Cancer ?,"Common Signs and Symptoms When lung cancer first develops, there may be no symptoms at all. But if the cancer grows, it can cause changes that people should watch for. Common signs and symptoms of lung cancer include: - a cough that doesn't go away and gets worse over time  - constant chest pain  - coughing up blood  - shortness of breath, wheezing, or hoarseness  - repeated problems with pneumonia or bronchitis  - swelling of the neck and face  - loss of appetite or weight loss  - fatigue. a cough that doesn't go away and gets worse over time constant chest pain coughing up blood shortness of breath, wheezing, or hoarseness repeated problems with pneumonia or bronchitis swelling of the neck and face loss of appetite or weight loss fatigue. These symptoms may be caused by lung cancer or by other conditions. It is important to check with a doctor if you have symptoms because only a doctor can make a diagnosis. Don't wait to feel pain. Early cancer usually doesn't cause pain. Tests for Lung Cancer To better understand a persons chance of developing lung cancer, a doctor first evaluates a person's medical history, smoking history, their exposure to environmental and occupational substances, and family history of cancer. The doctor also performs a physical exam and may order a test to take an image of the chest or other tests. Seeing a spot on an image is usually how a doctor first suspects that lung cancer may be present. If lung cancer is suspected, the doctor may order a test called sputum cytology. This is a simple test where, under a microscope, a doctor examines a sample of mucous cells coughed up from the lungs under a microscope to see if cancer is present. Biopsies to Detect Lung Cancer But to confirm the presence of lung cancer, the doctor must examine fluid or tissue from the lung. This is done through a biopsy -- the removal of a small sample of fluid or tissue for examination under a microscope by a pathologist. A biopsy can show whether a person has cancer. A number of procedures may be used to obtain this tissue. - Bronchoscopy -- The doctor puts a bronchoscope -- a thin, lighted tube -- into the mouth or nose and down through the windpipe to look into the breathing passages. Through this tube, the doctor can collect cells or small samples of tissue.  - Needle Aspiration -- The doctor numbs the chest area and inserts a thin needle into the tumor to remove a sample of tissue.  - Thoracentesis - Using a needle, the doctor removes a sample of the fluid that surrounds the lungs to check for cancer cells.  - Thorascopy or Thoracotomy -- Surgery to open the chest is sometimes needed to diagnose lung cancer. This procedure is a major operation performed in a hospital. Bronchoscopy -- The doctor puts a bronchoscope -- a thin, lighted tube -- into the mouth or nose and down through the windpipe to look into the breathing passages. Through this tube, the doctor can collect cells or small samples of tissue. Needle Aspiration -- The doctor numbs the chest area and inserts a thin needle into the tumor to remove a sample of tissue. Thoracentesis - Using a needle, the doctor removes a sample of the fluid that surrounds the lungs to check for cancer cells. Thorascopy or Thoracotomy -- Surgery to open the chest is sometimes needed to diagnose lung cancer. This procedure is a major operation performed in a hospital. Other Tests Doctors use imaging methods such as a spiral CT scan (also commonly known as helical CT) to look for signs of cancer. A CT scan, also known as computerized tomography scan, is a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. Other tests can include removal of lymph nodes for examination under a microscope to check for cancer cells. Lymph nodes are small, bean-shaped structures found throughout the body. They filter substances in a fluid called lymph and help fight infection and disease."
1075,What is (are) Gaucher disease ?,"Gaucher disease refers to a group of inherited conditions that affect many organs and tissues in the body. Signs and symptoms vary widely among affected individuals. There are different types of this condition: Gaucher disease perinatal lethal, Gaucher disease type 1, Gaucher disease type 2, and Gaucher disease type 3. Gaucher disease type 1 is the most common form of this condition. Gaucher disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in the GBA gene."
1076,What are the symptoms of Noonan syndrome 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Noonan syndrome 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Noonan syndrome 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Intellectual disability 25% Hypogonadism 7.5% Abnormal bleeding - Amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia - Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Brachydactyly syndrome - Clinodactyly - Coarctation of aorta - Cryptorchidism - Cubitus valgus - Cystic hygroma - Dental malocclusion - Epicanthus - Failure to thrive in infancy - Heterogeneous - High palate - Hypertelorism - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Kyphoscoliosis - Low posterior hairline - Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears - Lymphedema - Male infertility - Myopia - Neurofibrosarcoma - Patent ductus arteriosus - Pectus excavatum of inferior sternum - Postnatal growth retardation - Ptosis - Pulmonic stenosis - Radial deviation of finger - Reduced factor XII activity - Reduced factor XIII activity - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Shield chest - Short neck - Short stature - Superior pectus carinatum - Synovitis - Triangular face - Ventricular septal defect - Webbed neck - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1077,What is (are) Stillbirth ?,"If a woman loses a pregnancy after she's past her 20th week, it's called a stillbirth. Stillbirths are due to natural causes. They can happen before delivery or during delivery. Causes include:       - Problems with the placenta, the organ that transports oxygen and nutrients to the fetus    - Genetic problems with the fetus    - Fetal infections    - Other physical problems in the fetus       In at least half of all cases, it is not possible to tell why the baby died.    If stillbirth happens before delivery, your health care provider may induce labor or perform a Cesarean section to deliver the fetus. In some cases, you can wait until you go into labor yourself. This usually happens within two weeks of stillbirth.    Counseling may help you cope with your grief. Later, if you do decide to try again, work closely with your health care provider to lower the risks. Many women who have a stillbirth go on to have healthy babies.    NIH: National Institute of Child Health and Human Development"
1078,What is (are) Transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ?,"Transient neonatal diabetes mellitus (TNDB) is a type of diabetes that appears within the first few weeks of life but is transient; affected infants go into remission within a few months, with possible relapse to permanent diabetes in adolescence or adulthood. Affected individuals have slow growth before birth followed by hyperglycemia, dehydration and failure to thrive in infancy. Approximately 70% of cases are caused by the overactivity of certain genes in a region of the long (q) arm of chromosome 6 called 6q24. These cases are referred to as 6q24-related TNDB; most (but not all) of these cases are not inherited. Other genetic causes include mutations in the KCNJ11 and ABCC8 genes, which usually cause permanent neonatal diabetes. Treatment may include rehydration and intravenous insulin at the time of diagnosis, followed by subcutaneous insulin."
1079,What is (are) polycythemia vera ?,"Polycythemia vera is a condition characterized by an increased number of red blood cells in the bloodstream. Affected individuals may also have excess white blood cells and blood clotting cells called platelets. These extra cells cause the blood to be thicker than normal. As a result, abnormal blood clots are more likely to form and block the flow of blood through arteries and veins. Individuals with polycythemia vera have an increased risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), a type of blood clot that occurs in the deep veins of the arms or legs. If a DVT travels through the bloodstream and lodges in the lungs, it can cause a life-threatening clot known as a pulmonary embolism (PE). Affected individuals also have an increased risk of heart attack and stroke caused by blood clots in the heart and brain.  Polycythemia vera typically develops in adulthood, around age 60, although in rare cases it occurs in children and young adults. This condition may not cause any symptoms in its early stages. Some people with polycythemia vera experience headaches, dizziness, ringing in the ears (tinnitus), impaired vision, or itchy skin. Affected individuals frequently have reddened skin because of the extra red blood cells. Other complications of polycythemia vera include an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), stomach ulcers, gout (a form of arthritis caused by a buildup of uric acid in the joints), heart disease, and cancer of blood-forming cells (leukemia)."
1080,What are the complications of Renal Artery Stenosis ?,"People with RAS are at increased risk for complications resulting from loss of kidney function or atherosclerosis occurring in other blood vessels, such as
                
- chronic kidney disease (CKD)reduced kidney function over a period of time  - coronary artery diseasenarrowing and hardening of arteries that supply blood to the heart  - strokebrain damage caused by lack of blood flow to the brain  - peripheral vascular diseaseblockage of blood vessels that restricts flow of blood from the heart to other parts of the body, particularly the legs
                
RAS can lead to kidney failure, described as end-stage renal disease when treated with blood-filtering treatments called dialysis or a kidney transplant, though this is uncommon in people who receive ongoing treatment for RAS."
1081,How many people are affected by glycogen storage disease type IV ?,"GSD IV is estimated to occur in 1 in 600,000 to 800,000 individuals worldwide. Type IV accounts for roughly 3 percent of all cases of glycogen storage disease."
1082,What are the symptoms of Dravet syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dravet syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dravet syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Absence seizures - Ataxia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebral atrophy - Cortical visual impairment - Epileptic encephalopathy - Focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness - Generalized myoclonic seizures - Hemiclonic seizures - Infantile onset - Mental deterioration - Motor delay - Postnatal microcephaly - Status epilepticus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1083,What to do for Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?,"- Childhood nephrotic syndrome is not a disease in itself; rather, it is a group of symptoms that      - indicate kidney damageparticularly damage to the glomeruli, the tiny units within the kidney where blood is filtered    - result in the release of too much protein from the body into the urine    - The two types of childhood nephrotic syndrome are      - primarythe most common type of childhood nephrotic syndrome, which begins in the kidneys and affects only the kidneys    - secondarythe syndrome is caused by other diseases    - The signs and symptoms of childhood nephrotic syndrome may include      - edemaswelling, most often in the legs, feet, or ankles and less often in the hands or face    - albuminuriawhen a childs urine has high levels of albumin    - hypoalbuminemiawhen a childs blood has low levels of albumin    - hyperlipidemiawhen a childs blood cholesterol and fat levels are higher than normal    - A health care provider may order urine tests to help determine if a child has kidney damage from childhood nephrotic syndrome.  - Health care providers will decide how to treat childhood nephrotic syndrome based on the type:      - primary childhood nephrotic syndrome: medications    - secondary childhood nephrotic syndrome: treat the underlying illness or disease    - congenital nephrotic syndrome: medications, surgery to remove one or both kidneys, or transplantation"
1084,What are the genetic changes related to dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans ?,"Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is associated with a rearrangement (translocation) of genetic material between chromosomes 17 and 22. This translocation, written as t(17;22), fuses part of the COL1A1 gene from chromosome 17 with part of the PDGFB gene from chromosome 22. The translocation is found on one or more extra chromosomes that can be either the normal linear shape or circular. When circular, the extra chromosomes are known as supernumerary ring chromosomes. Ring chromosomes occur when a chromosome breaks in two places and the ends of the chromosome arms fuse together to form a circular structure. Other genes from chromosomes 17 and 22 can be found on the extra chromosomes, but the role these genes play in development of the condition is unclear. The translocation is acquired during a person's lifetime and the chromosomes containing the translocation are present only in the tumor cells. This type of genetic change is called a somatic mutation.  In normal cells, the COL1A1 gene provides instructions for making part of a large molecule called type I collagen, which strengthens and supports many tissues in the body. The PDGFB gene provides instructions for making one version (isoform) of the platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) protein. By attaching to its receptor, the active PDGFB protein stimulates many cellular processes, including cell growth and division (proliferation) and maturation (differentiation).  The abnormally fused COL1A1-PDGFB gene provides instructions for making an abnormal combined (fusion) protein that researchers believe ultimately functions like the PDGFB protein. The gene fusion leads to the production of an excessive amount of protein that functions like the PDGFB protein. In excess, this fusion protein stimulates cells to proliferate and differentiate abnormally, leading to the tumor formation seen in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans.  The COL1A1-PDGFB fusion gene is found in more than 90 percent of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans cases. In the remaining cases, changes in other genes may be associated with this condition. These genes have not been identified."
1085,How many people are affected by multiminicore disease ?,"Multiminicore disease is thought to be a rare disorder, although its incidence is unknown."
1086,"What are the symptoms of Hypertrichosis lanuginosa, acquired ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Hypertrichosis lanuginosa, acquired? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hypertrichosis lanuginosa, acquired. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eye 90% Abnormality of the eyebrow 90% Congenital, generalized hypertrichosis 90% Fine hair 90% Hypopigmentation of hair 90% Glossitis 50% Acanthosis nigricans 7.5% Ichthyosis 7.5% Lymphadenopathy 7.5% Malabsorption 7.5% Neoplasm of the breast 7.5% Neoplasm of the lung 7.5% Ovarian neoplasm 7.5% Weight loss 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1087,How to diagnose Achondrogenesis ?,"Is genetic testing is available for achondrogenesis? Genetic testing can help distinguish between the different types of achondrogenesis. GeneTests lists the names of laboratories that are performing genetic testing for achondrogenesis type 1B and type 2. Please note: Most of the laboratories listed through GeneTests do not accept direct contact from patients and their families; therefore, if you are interested in learning more, you will need to work with a health care provider or a genetics professional. In the Services tab, we provide a list of online resources that can assist you in locating a genetics professional near you."
1088,What is (are) laryngo-onycho-cutaneous syndrome ?,"Laryngo-onycho-cutaneous (LOC) syndrome is a disorder that leads to abnormalities of the voicebox (laryngo-), finger- and toenails (onycho-), and skin (cutaneous). Many of the condition's signs and symptoms are related to the abnormal growth of granulation tissue in different parts of the body. This red, bumpy tissue is normally produced during wound healing and is usually replaced by skin cells as healing continues. However, in people with LOC syndrome, this tissue grows even when there is no major injury.  One of the first symptoms in infants with LOC syndrome is a hoarse cry due to ulcers or overgrowth of granulation tissue in the voicebox (the larynx). Excess granulation tissue can also block the airways, leading to life-threatening breathing problems; as a result many affected individuals do not survive past childhood.  In LOC syndrome, granulation tissue also grows in the eyes, specifically the conjunctiva, which are the moist tissues that line the eyelids and the white part of the eyes. Affected individuals often have impairment or complete loss of vision due to the tissue overgrowth.  Another common feature of LOC syndrome is missing patches of skin (cutaneous erosions). The erosions heal slowly and may become infected. People with LOC syndrome can also have malformed nails and small, abnormal teeth. The hard, white material that forms the protective outer layer of each tooth (enamel) is thin, which contributes to frequent cavities.  LOC syndrome is typically considered a subtype of another skin condition called junctional epidermolysis bullosa, which is characterized by fragile skin that blisters easily. While individuals with junctional epidermolysis bullosa can have some of the features of LOC syndrome, they do not usually have overgrowth of granulation tissue in the conjunctiva."
1089,What is (are) Heart Failure ?,"Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. Heart failure does not mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. It means that your heart is not able to pump blood the way it should. It can affect one or both sides of the heart.    The weakening of the heart's pumping ability causes       - Blood and fluid to back up into the lungs    - The buildup of fluid in the feet, ankles and legs - called edema    - Tiredness and shortness of breath       Common causes of heart failure are coronary artery disease, high blood pressure and diabetes. It is more common in people who are 65 years old or older, African Americans, people who are overweight, and people who have had a heart attack. Men have a higher rate of heart failure than women.    Your doctor will diagnose heart failure by doing a physical exam and heart tests. Treatment includes treating the underlying cause of your heart failure, medicines, and heart transplantation if other treatments fail.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
1090,how vaccines prevent disease,"Why Are Childhood Vaccines So Important? It is always better to prevent a disease than to treat it after it occurs. Diseases that used to be common in this country and around the world, including polio, measles, diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), rubella (German measles), mumps, tetanus, rotavirus and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) can now be prevented by vaccination. Thanks to a vaccine, one of the most terrible diseases in history – smallpox – no longer exists outside the laboratory. Over the years vaccines have prevented countless cases of disease and saved millions of lives. Immunity Protects us From Disease Immunity is the body’s way of preventing disease.  Children are born with an immune system composed of cells, glands, organs, and fluids located throughout the body. The immune system recognizes germs that enter the body as ""foreign invaders” (called antigens) and produces proteins called antibodies to fight them. The first time a child is infected with a specific antigen (say measles virus), the immune system produces antibodies designed to fight it. This takes time . . . usually the immune system can’t work fast enough to prevent the antigen from causing disease, so the child still gets sick.  However, the immune system “remembers” that antigen. If it ever enters the body again, even after many years, the immune system can produce antibodies fast enough to keep it from causing disease a second time. This protection is called immunity. It would be nice if there were a way to give children immunity to a disease without their having to get sick first. In fact there is: Vaccines contain the same antigens (or parts of antigens) that cause diseases. For example, measles vaccine contains measles virus. But the antigens in vaccines are either killed, or weakened to the point that they don’t cause disease. However, they are strong enough to make the immune system produce antibodies that lead to immunity. In other words, a vaccine is a safer substitute for a child’s first exposure to a disease. The child gets protection without having to get sick. Through vaccination, children can develop immunity without suffering from the actual diseases that vaccines prevent. Top of Page More Facts Newborn babies are immune to many diseases because they have antibodies they got from their mothers. However, this immunity goes away during the first year of life. If an unvaccinated child is exposed to a disease germ, the child's body may not be strong enough to fight the disease. Before vaccines, many children died from diseases that vaccines now prevent, such as whooping cough, measles, and polio. Those same germs exist today, but because babies are protected by vaccines, we don’t see these diseases nearly as often. Immunizing individual children also helps to protect the health of our community, especially those people who cannot be immunized (children who are too young to be vaccinated, or those who can’t receive certain vaccines for medical reasons), and the small proportion of people who don’t respond to a particular vaccine. Vaccine-preventable diseases have a costly impact, resulting in doctor's visits, hospitalizations, and premature deaths. Sick children can also cause parents to lose time from work.   Related Pages Why Immunize? Vaccines: A Safe Choice Parents Guide to Immunizations For Parents: How Vaccines Prevent Diseases Top of Page   Images and logos on this website which are trademarked/copyrighted or used with permission of the trademark/copyright or logo holder are not in the public domain. These images and logos have been licensed for or used with permission in the materials provided on this website. The materials in the form presented on this website may be used without seeking further permission. Any other use of trademarked/copyrighted images or logos requires permission from the trademark/copyright holder...more This graphic notice means that you are leaving an HHS Web site. For more information, please see the Exit Notification and Disclaimer policy."
1091,What is the outlook for Congenital Myopathy ?,"When breathing difficulties are severe, and particularly if there is also a problem with feeding and swallowing, infants may die of respiratory failure or complications such as pneumonia. Sometimes muscle weakness can lead to skeletal problems, such as scoliosis, reduced mobility of joints, or hip problems. The heart muscle is rarely involved."
1092,Do you have information about Palliative Care,"Summary : Palliative care is treatment of the discomfort, symptoms, and stress of serious illness. It provides relief from distressing symptoms including       - Pain    - Shortness of breath    - Fatigue    - Constipation    - Nausea    - Loss of appetite    - Problems with sleep       It can also help you deal with the side effects of the medical treatments you're receiving.    Hospice care, care at the end of life, always includes palliative care. But you may receive palliative care at any stage of an illness. The goal is to make you comfortable and improve your quality of life.    NIH: National Institute of Nursing Research"
1093,What is (are) Pierson syndrome ?,"Pierson syndrome is a very rare condition that mainly affects the kidneys and eyes. Signs and symptoms include congenital nephrotic syndrome and distinct ocular (eye) abnormalities, including microcoria (small pupils that are not responsive to light). Most affected children have early-onset, chronic renal failure; neurodevelopmental problems; and blindness. Hypotonia (poor muscle tone) and movement disorders have also been reported. Pierson syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the LAMB2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. The long-term outlook is poor; affected infants may not survive past the first weeks or months of life."
1094,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Small Cell Lung Cancer ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
1095,What are the treatments for Werner syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Werner syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Werner Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Werner syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1096,How many people are affected by Denys-Drash syndrome ?,The prevalence of Denys-Drash syndrome is unknown; at least 150 affected individuals have been reported in the scientific literature.
1097,What are the genetic changes related to factor XIII deficiency ?,"Inherited factor XIII deficiency results from mutations in the F13A1 gene or, less commonly, the F13B gene. These genes provide instructions for making the two parts (subunits) of a protein called factor XIII. This protein plays a critical role in the coagulation cascade, which is a series of chemical reactions that forms blood clots in response to injury. After an injury, clots seal off blood vessels to stop bleeding and trigger blood vessel repair. Factor XIII acts at the end of the cascade to strengthen and stabilize newly formed clots, preventing further blood loss.  Mutations in the F13A1 or F13B gene significantly reduce the amount of functional factor XIII available to participate in blood clotting. In most people with the inherited form of the condition, factor XIII levels in the bloodstream are less than 5 percent of normal. A loss of this protein's activity weakens blood clots, preventing the clots from stopping blood loss effectively.  The acquired form of factor XIII deficiency results when the production of factor XIII is reduced or when the body uses factor XIII faster than cells can replace it. Acquired factor XIII deficiency is generally mild because levels of factor XIII in the bloodstream are 20 to 70 percent of normal; levels above 10 percent of normal are usually adequate to prevent spontaneous bleeding episodes.  Acquired factor XIII deficiency can be caused by disorders including an inflammatory disease of the liver called hepatitis, scarring of the liver (cirrhosis), inflammatory bowel disease, overwhelming bacterial infections (sepsis), and several types of cancer. Acquired factor XIII deficiency can also be caused by abnormal activation of the immune system, which produces specialized proteins called autoantibodies that attack and disable the factor XIII protein. The production of autoantibodies against factor XIII is sometimes associated with immune system diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. In other cases, the trigger for autoantibody production is unknown."
1098,What are the genetic changes related to diastrophic dysplasia ?,"Diastrophic dysplasia is one of several skeletal disorders caused by mutations in the SLC26A2 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is essential for the normal development of cartilage and for its conversion to bone. Cartilage is a tough, flexible tissue that makes up much of the skeleton during early development. Most cartilage is later converted to bone, except for the cartilage that continues to cover and protect the ends of bones and is present in the nose and external ears. Mutations in the SLC26A2 gene alter the structure of developing cartilage, preventing bones from forming properly and resulting in the skeletal problems characteristic of diastrophic dysplasia."
1099,What is (are) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy ?,"Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD) is an eye disease. It affects the thin layer of cells that line the back part of the cornea. This layer is called the endothelium. The disease occurs when these cells slowly start to die off. The cells help pump excess fluid out of the cornea. As more and more cells are lost, fluid begins to build up in the cornea, causing swelling and a cloudy cornea. There are several forms of the disease according to the age of onset of the symptoms and the cause. The early-onset form is very rare and is known as Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 1 (or early-onset Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy) and it is caused by a change (mutation) in the COL8A2 gene. Late-onset Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophies are common and include: Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 2 (caused by a mutation in an unknown gene located in chromosome 13) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 3 (may be caused by TCF4 gene mutations) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 4 (caused by a mutation in the SLC4A11 gene) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 5 (caused by a mutation in an unknown gene located in chromosome 15) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 6 (caused by a mutation in the ZEB1 gene) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 7 (caused by a mutation in an unknown gene located in chromosome 9) Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy 8 (caused by heterozygous mutation in the AGBL1 gene).  Early in the disease, patients typically do not have symptoms. In the late-onset forms, the symptoms start around 50 or 60 years and include discomfort and painful episodes of recurrent corneal wounds and hazy vision. Over time, discomfort may diminish but severe impairment of visual acuity, and even blindness and cataracts in elderly patients, may be observed. Once the vision has worsened, the recommended treatment is a penetrating graft which has excellent results in most cases."
1100,What is (are) Hemoglobin E disease ?,"Hemoglobin E (HbE) disease is an inherited blood disorder characterized by an abnormal form of hemoglobin, called hemoglobin E. People with this condition have red blood cells that are smaller than normal and have an irregular shape. HbE disease is thought to be a benign condition. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern and is caused by a particular mutation in the HBB gene. The mutation that causes hemoglobin E disease has the highest frequency among people of Southeast Asian heritage (Cambodian, Laotian, Vietnamese and Thai). However, it is also found in people of Chinese, Filipino, Asiatic Indian, and Turkish descent."
1101,What are the genetic changes related to rheumatoid arthritis ?,"Rheumatoid arthritis probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, many of which are unknown.  Rheumatoid arthritis is classified as an autoimmune disorder, one of a large group of conditions that occur when the immune system attacks the body's own tissues and organs. In people with rheumatoid arthritis, the immune system triggers abnormal inflammation in the membrane that lines the joints (the synovium). When the synovium is inflamed, it causes pain, swelling, and stiffness of the joint. In severe cases, the inflammation also affects the bone, cartilage, and other tissues within the joint, causing more serious damage. Abnormal immune reactions also underlie the features of rheumatoid arthritis affecting other parts of the body.  Variations in dozens of genes have been studied as risk factors for rheumatoid arthritis. Most of these genes are known or suspected to be involved in immune system function. The most significant genetic risk factors for rheumatoid arthritis are variations in human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes, especially the HLA-DRB1 gene. The proteins produced from HLA genes help the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). Changes in other genes appear to have a smaller impact on a person's overall risk of developing the condition.  Other, nongenetic factors are also believed to play a role in rheumatoid arthritis. These factors may trigger the condition in people who are at risk, although the mechanism is unclear. Potential triggers include changes in sex hormones (particularly in women), occupational exposure to certain kinds of dust or fibers, and viral or bacterial infections. Long-term smoking is a well-established risk factor for developing rheumatoid arthritis; it is also associated with more severe signs and symptoms in people who have the disease."
1102,What is (are) Tuberous Sclerosis ?,"Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is a rare genetic disease that causes benign tumors to grow in the brain and on other vital organs such as the kidneys, heart, eyes, lungs, and skin. It usually affects the central nervous system. In addition to the benign tumors that frequently occur in TSC, other common symptoms include seizures,impaired intellectual development, behavior problems, and skin abnormalities. TSC may be present at birth, but signs of the disorder can be subtle and full symptoms may take some time to develop. Three types of brain tumors are associated with TSC: cortical tubers, which generally form on the surface of the brain; subependymal nodules, which form in the walls of the ventricles (the fluid-filled cavities of the brain); and giant-cell astrocytomas, a type of tumor that can block the flow of fluids within the brain."
1103,What are the symptoms of COACH syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of COACH syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for COACH syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Apnea 90% Biliary tract abnormality 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Congenital hepatic fibrosis 90% Elevated hepatic transaminases 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Incoordination 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Oculomotor apraxia 90% Chorioretinal coloboma 50% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Gait disturbance 50% Hyperreflexia 50% Iris coloboma 50% Long face 50% Narrow forehead 50% Nephropathy 50% Nystagmus 50% Optic nerve coloboma 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of neuronal migration 7.5% Abnormality of the hypothalamus-pituitary axis 7.5% Abnormality of the oral cavity 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Chronic hepatic failure 7.5% Cirrhosis 7.5% Encephalocele 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Highly arched eyebrow 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Neoplasm of the liver 7.5% Oral cleft 7.5% Portal hypertension 7.5% Postaxial hand polydactyly 7.5% Prominent nasal bridge 7.5% Ptosis 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Tremor 7.5% Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar vermis hypoplasia - Coloboma - Growth delay - Hepatic fibrosis - Heterogeneous - Hypertelorism - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability, moderate - Molar tooth sign on MRI - Multiple small medullary renal cysts - Nephronophthisis - Occipital encephalocele - Round face - Spasticity - Wide mouth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1104,What are the treatments for Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome ?,"How might tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) be treated? While there is no proven treatment for TRAPS, non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) may be used to relieve symptoms of fever, and corticosteroids may be used to reduce severity of symptoms in most people. However, these medications typically don't decrease the frequency of attacks. Etanercept, a TNF inhibitor, has been shown to be effective but its efficacy tends to wane over time. Standard doses of etanercept twice a week have been shown to decrease the frequency, duration, and severity of attacks in some people and it may also reverse or slow the progression of amyloidosis. More studies are needed to evaluate this medication for TRAPS. Additional information about the treatment of TRAPS can be viewed on Medscape's Web site."
1105,What is (are) Disabilities ?,"Disabilities make it harder to do normal daily activities. They may limit what you can do physically or mentally, or they can affect your senses. Disability doesn't mean unable, and it isn't a sickness. Most people with disabilities can - and do - work, play, learn, and enjoy full, healthy lives. Mobility aids and assistive devices can make daily tasks easier.    About one in every five people in the United States has a disability. Some people are born with one. Others have them as a result of an illness or injury. Some people develop them as they age. Almost all of us will have a disability at some point in our lives.    Department of Health and Human Services"
1106,What are the symptoms of Colorectal Cancer ?,"Possible signs of colorectal cancer include: - a change in the frequency of bowel movements   - diarrhea, constipation, or feeling that the bowel does not empty completely   - either bright red or very dark blood in the stool a change in the frequency of bowel movements diarrhea, constipation, or feeling that the bowel does not empty completely either bright red or very dark blood in the stool - stools that are narrower than usual  - general abdominal discomfort such as frequent gas pains, bloating, fullness, and/or cramps   - weight loss with no known reason  - constant tiredness  - vomiting stools that are narrower than usual general abdominal discomfort such as frequent gas pains, bloating, fullness, and/or cramps weight loss with no known reason constant tiredness vomiting"
1107,Is Clouston syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1108,Is X-linked thrombocytopenia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell may or may not cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases of X-linked inheritance, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons."
1109,What causes Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) ?,"Despite a vigorous search, scientists have not yet identified what causes CFS. While a single cause for CFS may yet be identified, another possibility is that CFS has multiple causes. Conditions that have been studied to determine if they cause or trigger the development of CFS include infections, immune disorders, stress, trauma, and toxins.
  Infection
  
Various types of infections have been studied to determine if they might cause or trigger CFS:
  
   - Candida albicans, a fungus that causes yeast infections
   - Mycoplasma, a cause of atypical pneumonia
   - Ross River virus, which causes Ross River Fever, a mosquito-borne tropical disease
  
  Could One Type of Infection Lead to CFS?
  
Researchers from around the world have studied if a single type of infection might be the cause of CFS, analyzed the data, and not yet found any association between CFS and infection. Researchers are still analyzing samples from CFS patients using the latest molecular methods to search for previously unknown infections (pathogen discovery). To date, these studies suggest that no one infection or pathogen causes CFS and that the illness may be triggered by a variety of illnesses or conditions. In fact, infection with Epstein-Barr virus, Ross River virus, and Coxiella burnetti will lead to a post-infective condition that meets the criteria for CFS in approximately 10-12% of cases. People who had severe symptoms when they became infected were more likely than those with mild symptoms to later develop CFS symptoms. The possibility remains that there may be a variety of different ways in which patients can develop CFS.
  Immune System and Allergies
  
Studies have looked to see if changes in a person's immune system might lead to CFS. The findings have been mixed. Similarities in symptoms from immune responses to infection and CFS lead to hypotheses that CFS may be caused by stress or a viral infection, which may lead to the chronic production of cytokines and then to CFS.
  
Antibodies against normal parts of the body (auto-antibodies) and immune complexes have been seen in some CFS patients. However, no associated tissue damage typical of autoimmune disease has been described in CFS patients. The opportunistic infections or increased risk for cancer observed in persons with immunodeficiency diseases or in immunosuppressed individuals is also not observed in CFS.
  
T-cell activation markers have been reported to be different between groups of CFS patients and healthy persons, but not all investigators have consistently observed these differences.
  
Allergic diseases and secondary illnesses such as sinusitis could be one predisposing factor for CFS, but not all CFS patients have allergies. Many patients do, however, report intolerances for certain substances that may be found in foods or over-the-counter medications, such as alcohol.
  
                
  Hypothalamic-Pituitary Adrenal (HPA) Axis
  
The central nervous system plays an important role in CFS. Physical or emotional stress, which is commonly reported as a pre-onset condition in CFS patients, alters the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, or HPA axis, leading to altered release of corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), cortisol, and other hormones. These hormones can influence the immune system and many other body systems.
  
Some CFS patients produce lower levels of cortisol than do healthy people. Similar hormonal abnormalities have also been observed among CFS patients and in persons with related disorders like fibromyalgia. Cortisol suppresses inflammation and cellular immune activation, and reduced levels might relax constraints on inflammatory processes and immune cell activation. Even though CFS patients had lower levels of cortisol than healthy individuals, their cortisol levels were still within the acceptable range of what is considered normal. Therefore, doctors cannot use cortisol levels as a way to diagnose CFS.
  
                
  Abnormally Low Blood Pressure and Lightheadedness (Neurally Mediated Hypotension)
  
Disturbances in the autonomic regulation of blood pressure and pulse have been found in CFS patients. This problem with maintaining blood pressure can be diagnosed by using tilt table testing, which involves laying the patient horizontally on a table and then tilting the table upright to 70 degrees for 45 minutes while monitoring blood pressure and heart rate. Persons with neurally mediated hypotension (NMH) or postural orthostatic tachycardia (POTS) will develop lower blood pressure under these conditions, as well as other characteristic symptoms, such as lightheadedness, visual dimming, or a slow response to verbal stimuli. Others may develop an unusually rapid heart rate also associated with the symptoms of the syndrome. Many CFS patients experience lightheadedness or worsened fatigue when they stand for prolonged periods or when in warm places, such as in a hot shower -- all circumstances that are known to trigger NMH or POTS.
  
NMH and/or POTS share some of the symptoms of CFS. They should be considered in a CFS patients whose symptoms are worsened with changes in position, after eating, following unusual amounts of or inadequate fluid intake, or increases in activity. Not all patients with CFS will have these conditions, however.
  
                
  Nutritional Deficiency
  
There is no published scientific evidence that CFS is caused by a nutritional deficiency. While evidence is currently lacking for nutritional defects in CFS patients, it should also be added that a balanced diet can be favorable to better health in general and would be expected to benefit a person with any chronic illness."
1110,How many people are affected by fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva ?,"Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva is a very rare disorder, believed to occur in approximately 1 in 2 million people worldwide. Several hundred cases have been reported."
1111,Is hereditary fructose intolerance inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1112,What is (are) Neurosyphilis ?,"Neurosyphilis is a disease of the coverings of the brain, the brain itself, or the spinal cord. It can occur in people with syphilis, especially if they are left untreated. Neurosyphilis is different from syphilis because it affects the nervous system, while syphilis is a sexually transmitted disease with different signs and symptoms. There are five types of neurosyphilis:
                
- asymptomatic neurosyphilis - meningeal neurosyphilis - meningovascular neurosyphilis - general paresis, and - tabes dorsalis.
                
Asymptomatic neurosyphilis means that neurosyphilis is present, but the individual reports no symptoms and does not feel sick. Meningeal syphilis can occur between the first few weeks to the first few years of getting syphilis. Individuals with meningeal syphilis can have headache, stiff neck, nausea, and vomiting. Sometimes there can also be loss of vision or hearing. Meningovascular syphilis causes the same symptoms as meningeal syphilis but affected individuals also have strokes. This form of neurosyphilis can occur within the first few months to several years after infection. General paresis can occur between 3  30 years after getting syphilis. People with general paresis can have personality or mood changes. Tabes dorsalis is characterized by pains in the limbs or abdomen, failure of muscle coordination, and bladder disturbances. Other signs include vision loss, loss of reflexes and loss of sense of vibration, poor gait, and impaired balance. Tabes dorsalis can occur anywhere from 5  50 years after initial syphilis infection. General paresis and tabes dorsalis are now less common than the other forms of neurosyphilis because of advances made in prevention, screening, and treatment. People with HIV/AIDS are at higher risk of having neurosyphilis."
1113,Is fragile XE syndrome inherited ?,"Fragile XE syndrome is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females.  In parents with the AFF2 gene premutation, the number of CCG repeats can expand to more than 200 in cells that develop into eggs or sperm. This means that parents with the premutation have an increased risk of having a child with fragile XE syndrome. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons; sons receive a Y chromosome from their father, which does not include the AFF2 gene."
1114,Is Ollier disease inherited ?,"Ollier disease is not inherited. The mutations that cause this disorder are somatic, which means they occur during a person's lifetime. A somatic mutation occurs in a single cell. As that cell continues to grow and divide, the cells derived from it also have the same mutation. In Ollier disease, the mutation is thought to occur in a cell during early development before birth; cells that arise from that abnormal cell have the mutation, while the body's other cells do not. This situation is called mosaicism."
1115,How to diagnose Salivary Gland Cancer ?,"Tests that examine the head, neck, and the inside of the mouth are used to detect (find) and diagnose salivary gland cancer. The following procedures may be used:         -  Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health. The head, neck, mouth, and throat will be checked for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patient's health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.    -   Endoscopy : A procedure to look at organs and tissues inside the body to check for abnormal areas. For salivary gland cancer, an endoscope is inserted into the mouth to look at the mouth, throat, and larynx. An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing.     -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer.               -  Fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy : The removal of tissue or fluid using a thin needle. An FNA is the most common type of biopsy used for salivary gland cancer.      -  Incisional biopsy : The removal of part of a lump or a sample of tissue that doesnt look normal.      -  Surgery : If cancer cannot be diagnosed from the sample of tissue removed during an FNA biopsy or an incisional biopsy, the mass may be removed and checked for signs of cancer.                 Because salivary gland cancer can be hard to diagnose, patients should ask to have the tissue samples checked by a pathologist who has experience in diagnosing salivary gland cancer."
1116,What is (are) deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency ?,"Deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency is an inherited disorder that can cause liver disease and neurological problems. Researchers have described two forms of this disorder. The majority of affected individuals have the more severe form, which is called hepatocerebral because of the serious problems it causes in the liver and brain.  Newborns with the hepatocerebral form of deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency may have a buildup of lactic acid in the body (lactic acidosis) within the first few days after birth. They may also have weakness, behavior changes such as poor feeding and decreased activity, and vomiting. Affected newborns sometimes have low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) as a result of liver dysfunction. During the first few weeks of life they begin showing other signs of liver disease which may result in liver failure. They also develop progressive neurological problems including very weak muscle tone (severe hypotonia), abnormal eye movements (nystagmus) and the loss of skills they had previously acquired (developmental regression). Children with this form of the disorder usually do not survive past the age of 2 years.  Some individuals with deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency have a milder form of the disorder without severe neurological problems. Liver disease is the primary symptom of this form of the disorder, generally becoming evident during infancy or childhood. Occasionally it first appears after an illness such as a viral infection. Affected individuals may also develop kidney problems. Mild hypotonia is the only neurological effect associated with this form of the disorder."
1117,Is hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy inherited ?,"Hereditary cerebral amyloid angiopathy caused by mutations in the APP, CST3, or ITM2B gene is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  There is also a non-hereditary form of cerebral amyloid angiopathy that occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. The cause of this form of the condition is unknown. These cases are described as sporadic and are not inherited."
1118,How many people are affected by 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria ?,"2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is a rare disorder. D-2-HGA and L-2-HGA have each been reported to affect fewer than 150 individuals worldwide. Combined D,L-2-HGA appears to be even rarer, with only about a dozen reported cases."
1119,What are the genetic changes related to dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ?,"Mutations in the COL7A1 gene cause all three major forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is used to assemble type VII collagen. Collagens are molecules that give structure and strength to connective tissues, such as skin, tendons, and ligaments, throughout the body. Type VII collagen plays an important role in strengthening and stabilizing the skin. It is the main component of structures called anchoring fibrils, which anchor the top layer of skin, called the epidermis, to an underlying layer called the dermis.  COL7A1 mutations alter the structure or disrupt the production of type VII collagen, which impairs its ability to help connect the epidermis to the dermis. When type VII collagen is abnormal or missing, friction or other minor trauma can cause the two skin layers to separate. This separation leads to the formation of blisters, which can cause extensive scarring as they heal. Researchers are working to determine how abnormalities of type VII collagen also underlie the increased risk of skin cancer seen in the severe form of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa."
1120,How to prevent Problems with Taste ?,"Problems with taste that occur with aging cannot be prevented. However you may be able to protect yourself against other causes of taste loss with these steps. - Prevent upper respiratory infections such as colds and the flu. Wash your hands frequently, especially during the winter months, and get a flu shot every year.   - Avoid Head Injuries. Always wear seatbelts when riding in a car and a helmet when bicycling.   - Avoid Exposure to Toxic Chemicals. Avoid contact with chemicals that might cause smell problems such as paints, insecticides, and solvents, or wear a respirator if you cannot avoid contact.   - Review Your Medications. If you are taking antibiotics or antihistamines or other medications and notice a change in your sense of taste, talk to your doctor. You may be able to adjust or change your medicine to one that will not cause a problem with taste. Do not stop taking your medications unless directed by your doctor.   - Dont Smoke. It can impair the sense of taste. For free help to quit smoking, visit Smokefree.gov  Prevent upper respiratory infections such as colds and the flu. Wash your hands frequently, especially during the winter months, and get a flu shot every year. Avoid Head Injuries. Always wear seatbelts when riding in a car and a helmet when bicycling. Avoid Exposure to Toxic Chemicals. Avoid contact with chemicals that might cause smell problems such as paints, insecticides, and solvents, or wear a respirator if you cannot avoid contact. Review Your Medications. If you are taking antibiotics or antihistamines or other medications and notice a change in your sense of taste, talk to your doctor. You may be able to adjust or change your medicine to one that will not cause a problem with taste. Do not stop taking your medications unless directed by your doctor. Dont Smoke. It can impair the sense of taste. For free help to quit smoking, visit Smokefree.gov"
1121,What is (are) Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIC ?,"Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIC (MPS IIIC) is an genetic disorder that makes the body unable to break down large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs, formerly called mucopolysaccharides). Specifically, people with this condition are unable to break down a GAG called heparan sulfate. Affected individuals can have severe neurological symptoms, including progressive dementia, aggressive behavior, hyperactivity, seizures, deafness, loss of vision, and an inability to sleep for more than a few hours at a time. MPS IIIC results from the missing or altered enzyme acetyl-CoAlpha-glucosaminide acetyltransferase. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. There is no specific treatment. Most people with MPS IIIC live into their teenage years; some live longer."
1122,What is the outlook for Familial Periodic Paralyses ?,"The prognosis for the familial periodic paralyses varies. Chronic attacks may result in progressive weakness that persists between attacks. Some cases respond well to treatment, which can prevent or reverse progressive muscle weakness."
1123,What are the treatments for What I need to know about Cirrhosis ?,"Once you have cirrhosis, nothing can make all the scar tissue go away. But treating the cause will keep cirrhosis from getting worse. For example, if cirrhosis is from heavy alcohol use, the treatment is to completely stop drinking alcohol. If cirrhosis is caused by hepatitis C, then the hepatitis C virus is treated with medicine.
                

                
Your doctor will suggest treatment based on the cause of your cirrhosis and your symptoms. Being diagnosed early and carefully following a treatment plan can help many people with cirrhosis. In the late stages of cirrhosis, certain treatments may not be effective. In that case, your doctor will work with you to prevent or manage the problems that cirrhosis can cause.
                

                
What if the cirrhosis treatment doesnt work?   If too much scar tissue forms, your liver could fail. Then you will need a liver transplant. A liver transplant can return you to good health. For information about liver transplantation, see the booklet What I need to know about Liver Transplantation from the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK)."
1124,What is (are) tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome ?,"Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome (commonly known as TRAPS) is a condition characterized by recurrent episodes of fever. These fevers typically last about 3 weeks but can last from a few days to a few months. The frequency of the episodes varies greatly among affected individuals; fevers can occur anywhere between every 6 weeks to every few years. Some individuals can go many years without having a fever episode. Fever episodes usually occur spontaneously, but sometimes they can be brought on by a variety of triggers, such as minor injury, infection, stress, exercise, or hormonal changes.  During episodes of fever, people with TRAPS can have additional signs and symptoms. These include abdominal and muscle pain and a spreading skin rash, typically found on the limbs. Affected individuals may also experience puffiness or swelling in the skin around the eyes (periorbital edema); joint pain; and inflammation in various areas of the body including the eyes, heart muscle, certain joints, throat, or mucous membranes such as the moist lining of the mouth and digestive tract. Occasionally, people with TRAPS develop amyloidosis, an abnormal buildup of a protein called amyloid in the kidneys that can lead to kidney failure. It is estimated that 15 to 20 percent of people with TRAPS develop amyloidosis, typically in mid-adulthood.  The fever episodes characteristic of TRAPS can begin at any age, from infancy to late adulthood, but most people have their first episode in childhood."
1125,What are the symptoms of Giant axonal neuropathy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Giant axonal neuropathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Giant axonal neuropathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Intellectual disability 5% Abnormal pyramidal signs - Abnormality of the cerebellum - Abnormality of the hand - Areflexia of lower limbs - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Curly hair - Decreased number of peripheral myelinated nerve fibers - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Dysarthria - Facial palsy - Hyperreflexia - Hyporeflexia of lower limbs - Juvenile onset - Morphological abnormality of the pyramidal tract - Motor axonal neuropathy - Nystagmus - Pes cavus - Pes planus - Phenotypic variability - Proximal muscle weakness - Scoliosis - Sensory axonal neuropathy - Slow progression - Spastic paraplegia - Steppage gait - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1126,What is (are) autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ?,"Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) is an inherited disorder in which the body cannot properly regulate the number of immune system cells (lymphocytes). ALPS is characterized by the production of an abnormally large number of lymphocytes (lymphoproliferation). Accumulation of excess lymphocytes results in enlargement of the lymph nodes (lymphadenopathy), the liver (hepatomegaly), and the spleen (splenomegaly).  People with ALPS have an increased risk of developing cancer of the immune system cells (lymphoma) and may also be at increased risk of developing other cancers.  Autoimmune disorders are also common in ALPS. Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's own tissues and organs. Most of the autoimmune disorders associated with ALPS target and damage blood cells. For example, the immune system may attack red blood cells (autoimmune hemolytic anemia), white blood cells (autoimmune neutropenia), or platelets (autoimmune thrombocytopenia). Less commonly, autoimmune disorders that affect other organs and tissues occur in people with ALPS. These disorders can damage the kidneys (glomerulonephritis), liver (autoimmune hepatitis), eyes (uveitis), nerves (Guillain-Barre syndrome), or the connective tissues (systemic lupus erythematosus) that provide strength and flexibility to structures throughout the body.  Skin problems, usually rashes or hives (urticaria), can occur in ALPS. Occasionally, affected individuals develop hardened skin with painful lumps or patches (panniculitis). Other rare signs and symptoms of ALPS include joint inflammation (arthritis), inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis), mouth sores (oral ulcers), or an early loss of ovarian function (premature ovarian failure) may also occur in this disorder. Affected individuals can also develop neurological damage (organic brain syndrome) with symptoms that may include headaches, seizures, or a decline in intellectual functions (dementia).  ALPS can have different patterns of signs and symptoms, which are sometimes considered separate forms of the disorder. In the most common form, lymphoproliferation generally becomes apparent during childhood. Enlargement of the lymph nodes and spleen frequently occur in affected individuals. Autoimmune disorders typically develop several years later, most frequently as a combination of hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, also called Evans syndrome. People with this classic form of ALPS have a greatly increased risk of developing lymphoma compared with the general population.  Other types of ALPS are very rare. In some affected individuals, severe lymphoproliferation begins around the time of birth, and autoimmune disorders and lymphoma develop at an early age. People with this pattern of signs and symptoms generally do not live beyond childhood. Another form of ALPS involves lymphoproliferation and the tendency to develop systemic lupus erythematosus. Individuals with this form of the disorder do not have an enlarged spleen.  Some people have signs and symptoms that resemble those of ALPS, but the specific pattern of these signs and symptoms or the genetic cause may be different than in other forms. Researchers disagree whether individuals with these non-classic forms should be considered to have ALPS or a separate condition."
1127,Is Leber congenital amaurosis inherited ?,"Leber congenital amaurosis usually has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  When Leber congenital amaurosis is caused by mutations in the CRX or IMPDH1 genes, the disorder has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most of these cases, an affected person inherits a gene mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1128,What are the treatments for Pulmonary Embolism ?,"Pulmonary embolism (PE) is treated with medicines, procedures, and other therapies. The main goals of treating PE are to stop the blood clot from getting bigger and keep new clots from forming.
                
Treatment may include medicines to thin the blood and slow its ability to clot. If your symptoms are life threatening, your doctor may give you medicine to quickly dissolve the clot. Rarely, your doctor may use surgery or another procedure to remove the clot.
                
Medicines
                
Anticoagulants (AN-te-ko-AG-u-lants), or blood thinners, decrease your blood's ability to clot. They're used to stop blood clots from getting larger and prevent clots from forming. Blood thinners don't break up blood clots that have already formed. (The body dissolves most clots with time.)
                
You can take blood thinners as either a pill, an injection, or through a needle or tube inserted into a vein (called intravenous, or IV, injection). Warfarin is given as a pill. (Coumadin is a common brand name for warfarin.) Heparin is given as an injection or through an IV tube.
                
Your doctor may treat you with both heparin and warfarin at the same time. Heparin acts quickly. Warfarin takes 2 to 3 days before it starts to work. Once warfarin starts to work, heparin usually is stopped.
                
Pregnant women usually are treated with heparin only, because warfarin is dangerous for the pregnancy.
                
If you have deep vein thrombosis, treatment with blood thinners usually lasts for 3 to 6months. If you've had blood clots before, you may need a longer period of treatment. If you're being treated for another illness, such as cancer, you may need to take blood thinners as long as PE risk factors are present.
                
The most common side effect of blood thinners is bleeding. This can happen if the medicine thins your blood too much. This side effect can be life threatening.
                
Sometimes the bleeding is internal, which is why people treated with blood thinners usually have routine blood tests. These tests, called PT and PTT tests, measure the blood's ability to clot. These tests also help your doctor make sure you're taking the right amount of medicine. Call your doctor right away if you're bruising or bleeding easily.
                
Thrombin inhibitors are a newer type of blood-thinning medicine. They're used to treat some types of blood clots in people who can't take heparin.
                
Emergency Treatment
                
When PE is life threatening, a doctor may use treatments that remove or break up the blood clot. These treatments are given in an emergency room or hospital.
                
Thrombolytics (THROM-bo-LIT-iks) are medicines that can quickly dissolve a blood clot. They're used to treat large clots that cause severe symptoms. Because thrombolytics can cause sudden bleeding, they're used only in life-threatening situations.
                
Sometimes a doctor may use a catheter (a flexible tube) to reach the blood clot. The catheter is inserted into a vein in the groin (upper thigh) or arm and threaded to the clot in the lung. The doctor may use the catheter to remove the clot or deliver medicine to dissolve it.
                
Rarely, surgery may be needed to remove the blood clot.
                
Other Types of Treatment
                
If you can't take medicines to thin your blood, or if the medicines don't work, your doctor may suggest a vena cava filter. This device keeps blood clots from traveling to your lungs.
                
The filter is inserted inside a large vein called the inferior vena cava. (This vein carries blood from the body back to the heart). The filter catches clots before they travel to the lungs. This type of treatment can prevent PE, but it won't stop other blood clots from forming.
                
Graduated compression stockings can reduce the chronic (ongoing) swelling that a blood clot in the leg may cause.
                
Graduated compression stockings are worn on the legs from the arch of the foot to just above or below the knee. These stockings are tight at the ankle and become looser as they go up the leg. This causes gentle compression (pressure) up the leg. The pressure keeps blood from pooling and clotting."
1129,What are the genetic changes related to Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome ?,"Mutations in the PRKAG2 gene cause Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.  A small percentage of all cases of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome are caused by mutations in the PRKAG2 gene. Some people with these mutations also have features of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a form of heart disease that enlarges and weakens the heart (cardiac) muscle. The PRKAG2 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is part of an enzyme called AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This enzyme helps sense and respond to energy demands within cells. It is likely involved in the development of the heart before birth, although its role in this process is unknown.  Researchers are uncertain how PRKAG2 mutations lead to the development of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and related heart abnormalities. Research suggests that these mutations alter the activity of AMP-activated protein kinase in the heart, although it is unclear whether the genetic changes overactivate the enzyme or reduce its activity. Studies indicate that changes in AMP-activated protein kinase activity allow a complex sugar called glycogen to build up abnormally within cardiac muscle cells. Other studies have found that altered AMP-activated protein kinase activity is related to changes in the regulation of certain ion channels in the heart. These channels, which transport positively charged atoms (ions) into and out of cardiac muscle cells, play critical roles in maintaining the heart's normal rhythm.  In most cases, the cause of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is unknown."
1130,What is (are) Haemophilus Infections ?,"Haemophilus is the name of a group of bacteria. There are several types of Haemophilus. They can cause different types of illnesses involving breathing, bones and joints, and the nervous system.    One common type, Hib (Haemophilus influenzae type b), causes serious disease. It usually strikes children under 5 years old. Your child can get Hib disease by being around other children or adults who may have the bacteria and not know it. The germs spread from person to person. If the germs stay in the child's nose and throat, the child probably will not get sick. But sometimes the germs spread into the lungs or the bloodstream, and then Hib can cause serious problems such as meningitis and pneumonia.    There is a vaccine to prevent Hib disease. All children younger than 5 years of age should be vaccinated with the Hib vaccine.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
1131,What are the symptoms of Aromatase excess syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Aromatase excess syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Aromatase excess syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Accelerated skeletal maturation - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Gynecomastia - Short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1132,What is (are) lattice corneal dystrophy type I ?,"Lattice corneal dystrophy type I is an eye disorder that affects the clear, outer covering of the eye called the cornea. The cornea must remain clear for an individual to see properly; however, in lattice corneal dystrophy type I, protein clumps known as amyloid deposits cloud the cornea, which leads to vision impairment. The cornea is made up of several layers of tissue, and in lattice corneal dystrophy type I, the deposits form in the stromal layer. The amyloid deposits form as delicate, branching fibers that create a lattice pattern.  Affected individuals often have recurrent corneal erosions, which are caused by separation of particular layers of the cornea from one another. Corneal erosions are very painful and can cause sensitivity to bright light (photophobia). Lattice corneal dystrophy type I is usually bilateral, which means it affects both eyes. The condition becomes apparent in childhood or adolescence and leads to vision problems by early adulthood."
1133,How many people are affected by Prostate Cancer ?,"Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer among American men. It is a slow-growing disease that mostly affects older men. In fact, more than 60 percent of all prostate cancers are found in men over the age of 65. The disease rarely occurs in men younger than 40 years of age."
1134,What is (are) Polycythemia Vera ?,"Polycythemia vera (POL-e-si-THEE-me-ah VAY-rah or VE-rah), or PV, is a rare blood disease in which your body makes too many red blood cells.
                
The extra red blood cells make your blood thicker than normal. As a result, blood clots can form more easily. These clots can block blood flow through your arteries and veins, which can cause a heart attack or stroke.
                
Thicker blood also doesn't flow as quickly to your body as normal blood. Slowed blood flow prevents your organs from getting enough oxygen, which can cause serious problems, such as angina (an-JI-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) and heart failure. (Angina is chest pain or discomfort.)
                
Overview
                
Red blood cells carry oxygen to all parts of your body. They also remove carbon dioxide (a waste product) from your body's cells and carry it to the lungs to be exhaled.
                
Red blood cells are made in your bone marrowa sponge-like tissue inside the bones. White blood cells and platelets (PLATE-lets) also are made in your bone marrow. White blood cells help fight infection. Platelets stick together to seal small cuts or breaks on blood vessel walls and stop bleeding.
                
If you have PV, your bone marrow makes too many red blood cells. It also can make too many white blood cells and platelets.
                
A mutation, or change, in the body's JAK2 gene is the major cause of PV. This gene makes a protein that helps the body produce blood cells. What causes the change in the JAK2 gene isn't known. PV generally isn't inheritedthat is, passed from parents to children through genes.
                
PV develops slowly and may not cause symptoms for years. The disease often is found during routine blood tests done for other reasons.
                
When signs and symptoms are present, they're the result of the thick blood that occurs with PV. This thickness slows the flow of oxygen-rich blood to all parts of your body. Without enough oxygen, many parts of your body won't work normally.
                
For example, slower blood flow deprives your arms, legs, lungs, and eyes of the oxygen they need. This can cause headaches, dizziness, itching, and vision problems, such as blurred or double vision.
                
Outlook
                
PV is a serious, chronic (ongoing) disease that can be fatal if not diagnosed and treated. PV has no cure, but treatments can help control the disease and its complications.
                
PV is treated with procedures, medicines, and other methods. You may need one or more treatments to manage the disease."
1135,What are the symptoms of Triploidy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Triploidy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Triploidy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 90% Cryptorchidism 90% Decreased skull ossification 90% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 90% Hypertelorism 90% Hypoplasia of penis 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Wide mouth 90% Abnormality of the tongue 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 50% Cataract 50% Cleft palate 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Hepatomegaly 50% Iris coloboma 50% Narrow chest 50% Non-midline cleft lip 50% Omphalocele 50% Polyhydramnios 50% Abnormality of the cardiac septa 7.5% Abnormality of the gallbladder 7.5% Abnormality of the pancreas 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Holoprosencephaly 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Intestinal malrotation 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Narrow mouth 7.5% Short neck 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1136,What are the genetic changes related to Amish lethal microcephaly ?,"Mutations in the SLC25A19 gene cause Amish lethal microcephaly.  The SLC25A19 gene provides instructions for producing a protein that is a member of the solute carrier (SLC) family of proteins. Proteins in the SLC family transport various compounds across the membranes surrounding the cell and its component parts. The protein produced from the SLC25A19 gene transports a molecule called thiamine pyrophosphate into the mitochondria, the energy-producing centers of cells. This compound is involved in the activity of a group of mitochondrial enzymes called the dehydrogenase complexes, one of which is the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex. The transport of thiamine pyrophosphate into the mitochondria is believed to be important in brain development.  All known individuals with Amish lethal microcephaly have a mutation in which the protein building block (amino acid) alanine is substituted for the amino acid glycine at position 177 of the SLC25A19 protein, written as Gly177Ala or G177A. Researchers believe that this mutation interferes with the transport of thiamine pyrophosphate into the mitochondria and the activity of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex, resulting in the abnormal brain development and alpha-ketoglutaric aciduria seen in Amish lethal microcephaly."
1137,What is (are) Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (Islet Cell Tumors) ?,"Key Points
                    - Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors form in hormone-making cells (islet cells) of the pancreas.    - Pancreatic NETs may or may not cause signs or symptoms.    - There are different kinds of functional pancreatic NETs.     - Having certain syndromes can increase the risk of pancreatic NETs.     - Different types of pancreatic NETs have different signs and symptoms.     - Lab tests and imaging tests are used to detect (find) and diagnose pancreatic NETs.     - Other kinds of lab tests are used to check for the specific type of pancreatic NETs.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors form in hormone-making cells (islet cells) of the pancreas.
                    The pancreas is a gland about 6 inches long that is shaped like a thin pear lying on its side. The wider end of the pancreas is called the head, the middle section is called the body, and the narrow end is called the tail. The pancreas lies behind the stomach and in front of the spine.      There are two kinds of cells in the pancreas:         -   Endocrine pancreas cells  make several kinds of hormones (chemicals that control the actions of certain cells or organs in the body), such as insulin to control blood sugar. They cluster together in many small groups (islets) throughout the pancreas. Endocrine pancreas cells are also called islet cells or islets of Langerhans. Tumors that form in islet cells are called islet cell tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pancreatic NETs).     -   Exocrine pancreas cells  make enzymes that are released into the small intestine to help the body digest food. Most of the pancreas is made of ducts with small sacs at the end of the ducts, which are lined with exocrine cells.         This summary discusses islet cell tumors of the endocrine pancreas. See the PDQ summary on Pancreatic Cancer Treatment for information on exocrine pancreatic cancer.    Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). When pancreatic NETs are malignant, they are called pancreatic endocrine cancer or islet cell carcinoma.   Pancreatic NETs are much less common than pancreatic exocrine tumors and have a better prognosis.
                
                
                    There are different kinds of functional pancreatic NETs.
                    Pancreatic NETs make different kinds of hormones such as gastrin, insulin, and glucagon. Functional pancreatic NETs include the following:         -   Gastrinoma: A tumor that forms in cells that make gastrin. Gastrin is a hormone that causes the stomach to release an acid that helps digest food. Both gastrin and stomach acid are increased by gastrinomas. When increased stomach acid, stomach ulcers, and diarrhea are caused by a tumor that makes gastrin, it is called Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. A gastrinoma usually forms in the head of the pancreas and sometimes forms in the small intestine. Most gastrinomas are malignant (cancer).    -   Insulinoma: A tumor that forms in cells that make insulin. Insulin is a hormone that controls the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood. It moves glucose into the cells, where it can be used by the body for energy. Insulinomas are usually slow-growing tumors that rarely spread. An insulinoma forms in the head, body, or tail of the pancreas. Insulinomas are usually benign (not cancer).    -   Glucagonoma: A tumor that forms in cells that make glucagon. Glucagon is a hormone that increases the amount of glucose in the blood. It causes the liver to break down glycogen. Too much glucagon causes hyperglycemia (high blood sugar). A glucagonoma usually forms in the tail of the pancreas. Most glucagonomas are malignant (cancer).    -  Other types of tumors: There are other rare types of functional pancreatic NETs that make hormones, including hormones that control the balance of sugar, salt, and water in the body. These tumors include:                - VIPomas, which make vasoactive intestinal peptide. VIPoma may also be called Verner-Morrison syndrome.      - Somatostatinomas, which make somatostatin.         These other types of tumors are grouped together because they are treated in much the same way."
1138,What are the genetic changes related to palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness ?,"Palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness can be caused by mutations in the GJB2 or MT-TS1 genes.  The GJB2 gene provides instructions for making a protein called gap junction beta 2, more commonly known as connexin 26. Connexin 26 is a member of the connexin protein family. Connexin proteins form channels called gap junctions that permit the transport of nutrients, charged atoms (ions), and signaling molecules between neighboring cells that are in contact with each other. Gap junctions made with connexin 26 transport potassium ions and certain small molecules.  Connexin 26 is found in cells throughout the body, including the inner ear and the skin. In the inner ear, channels made from connexin 26 are found in a snail-shaped structure called the cochlea. These channels may help to maintain the proper level of potassium ions required for the conversion of sound waves to electrical nerve impulses. This conversion is essential for normal hearing. In addition, connexin 26 may be involved in the maturation of certain cells in the cochlea. Connexin 26 also plays a role in the growth, maturation, and stability of the outermost layer of skin (the epidermis).  The GJB2 gene mutations that cause palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in connexin 26. The altered protein probably disrupts the function of normal connexin 26 in cells, and may interfere with the function of other connexin proteins. This disruption could affect skin growth and also impair hearing by disturbing the conversion of sound waves to nerve impulses.  Palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness can also be caused by a mutation in the MT-TS1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a particular type of RNA, a molecule that is a chemical cousin of DNA. This type of RNA, called transfer RNA (tRNA), helps assemble amino acids into full-length, functioning proteins. The MT-TS1 gene provides instructions for a specific form of tRNA that is designated as tRNASer(UCN). This molecule attaches to a particular amino acid, serine (Ser), and inserts it into the appropriate locations in many different proteins.  The tRNASer(UCN) molecule is present only in cellular structures called mitochondria. These structures convert energy from food into a form that cells can use. Through a process called oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondria use oxygen, simple sugars, and fatty acids to create adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the cell's main energy source. The tRNASer(UCN) molecule is involved in the assembly of proteins that carry out oxidative phosphorylation.  The MT-TS1 gene mutation that causes palmoplantar keratoderma with deafness leads to reduced levels of tRNASer(UCN) to assemble proteins within mitochondria. Reduced production of proteins needed for oxidative phosphorylation may impair the ability of mitochondria to make ATP. Researchers have not determined why the effects of the mutation are limited to cells in the inner ear and the skin in this condition."
1139,What is the outlook for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer ?,"Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - The stage of the cancer (the size of the tumor and whether it is in the lung only or has spread to other places in the body).    - The type of lung cancer.    - Whether the cancer has mutations (changes) in certain genes, such as the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene or the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene.    - Whether there are signs and symptoms such as coughing or trouble breathing.    - The patients general health."
1140,What is (are) Tardive Dyskinesia ?,"Tardive dyskinesia is a neurological syndrome caused by the long-term use of neuroleptic drugs. Neuroleptic drugs are generally prescribed for psychiatric disorders, as well as for some gastrointestinal and neurological disorders. Tardive dyskinesia is characterized by repetitive, involuntary, purposeless movements. Features of the disorder may include grimacing, tongue protrusion, lip smacking, puckering and pursing, and rapid eye blinking. Rapid movements of the arms, legs, and trunk may also occur. Involuntary movements of the fingers may be present."
1141,Is Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder are not affected, but are carriers of one copy of the mutated gene. Some carriers of a KCNQ1 or KCNE1 mutation have signs and symptoms affecting the heart, but their hearing is usually normal."
1142,What are the genetic changes related to leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 ?,"Mutations in the ITGB2 gene cause leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1. This gene provides instructions for making one part (the 2 subunit) of at least four different proteins known as 2 integrins. Integrins that contain the 2 subunit are found embedded in the membrane that surrounds white blood cells (leukocytes). These integrins help leukocytes gather at sites of infection or injury, where they contribute to the immune response. 2 integrins recognize signs of inflammation and attach (bind) to proteins called ligands on the lining of blood vessels. This binding leads to linkage (adhesion) of the leukocyte to the blood vessel wall. Signaling through the 2 integrins triggers the transport of the attached leukocyte across the blood vessel wall to the site of infection or injury.  ITGB2 gene mutations that cause leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 lead to the production of a 2 subunit that cannot bind with other subunits to form 2 integrins. Leukocytes that lack these integrins cannot attach to the blood vessel wall or cross the vessel wall to contribute to the immune response. As a result, there is a decreased response to injury and foreign invaders, such as bacteria and fungi, resulting in frequent infections, delayed wound healing, and other signs and symptoms of this condition."
1143,Who is at risk for High Blood Pressure? ?,"Anyone can develop high blood pressure; however, age, race or ethnicity, being overweight, gender, lifestyle habits, and a family history of high blood pressure can increase your risk for developing high blood pressure.
                
Age
                
Blood pressure tends to rise with age. About 65 percent of Americans age 60 or older have high blood pressure. However, the risk for prehypertension and high blood pressure is increasing for children and teens, possibly due to the rise in the number of overweight children and teens.
                
Race/Ethnicity
                
High blood pressure is more common in African American adults than in Caucasian or Hispanic American adults. Compared with these ethnic groups, African Americans:
                
Tend to get high blood pressure earlier in life.
                
Often, on average, have higher blood pressure numbers.
                
Are less likely to achieve target blood pressure goals with treatment.
                
Overweight
                
You are more likely to develop prehypertension or high blood pressure if youre overweight or obese. The terms overweight and obese refer to body weight thats greater than what is considered healthy for a certain height.
                
Gender
                
Before age 55, men are more likely than women to develop high blood pressure. After age 55, women are more likely than men to develop high blood pressure.
                
Lifestyle Habits
                
Unhealthy lifestyle habits can raise your risk for high blood pressure, and they include:
                
Eating too much sodium or too little potassium
                
Lack of physical activity
                
Drinking too much alcohol
                
Stress
                
Family History
                
A family history of high blood pressure raises the risk of developing prehypertension or high blood pressure. Some people have a high sensitivity to sodium and salt, which may increase their risk for high blood pressure and may run in families. Genetic causes of this condition are why family history is a risk factor for this condition."
1144,What are the symptoms of Talipes equinovarus ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Talipes equinovarus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Talipes equinovarus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Foot polydactyly 5% Patellar hypoplasia 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Incomplete penetrance - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1145,What is (are) Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome ?,"Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a life-threatening, neurological disorder most often caused by an adverse reaction to neuroleptic or antipsychotic drugs. Symptoms include high fever, sweating, unstable blood pressure, stupor, muscular rigidity, and autonomic dysfunction. In most cases, the disorder develops within the first 2 weeks of treatment with the drug; however, the disorder may develop any time during the therapy period. The syndrome can also occur in people taking anti-Parkinsonism drugs known as dopaminergics if those drugs are discontinued abruptly."
1146,What is (are) Griscelli syndrome ?,"Griscelli syndrome is an inherited condition characterized by unusually light (hypopigmented) skin and light silvery-gray hair starting in infancy. Researchers have identified three types of this disorder, which are distinguished by their genetic cause and pattern of signs and symptoms.  Griscelli syndrome type 1 involves severe problems with brain function in addition to the distinctive skin and hair coloring. Affected individuals typically have delayed development, intellectual disability, seizures, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), and eye and vision abnormalities. Another condition called Elejalde disease has many of the same signs and symptoms, and some researchers have proposed that Griscelli syndrome type 1 and Elejalde disease are actually the same disorder.  People with Griscelli syndrome type 2 have immune system abnormalities in addition to having hypopigmented skin and hair. Affected individuals are prone to recurrent infections. They also develop an immune condition called hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH), in which the immune system produces too many activated immune cells called T-lymphocytes and macrophages (histiocytes). Overactivity of these cells can damage organs and tissues throughout the body, causing life-threatening complications if the condition is untreated. People with Griscelli syndrome type 2 do not have the neurological abnormalities of type 1.  Unusually light skin and hair coloring are the only features of Griscelli syndrome type 3. People with this form of the disorder do not have neurological abnormalities or immune system problems."
1147,What is (are) Electrocardiogram ?,"An electrocardiogram (e-lek-tro-KAR-de-o-gram), also called an EKG or ECG, is a simple, painless test that records the heart's electrical activity. To understand this test, it helps to understand how the heart works.
                
With each heartbeat, an electrical signal spreads from the top of the heart to the bottom. As it travels, the signal causes the heart to contract and pump blood. The process repeats with each new heartbeat.
                
The heart's electrical signals set the rhythm of the heartbeat. For more detailed information and animations, go to the Health Topics How the Heart Works article.
                
An EKG shows:
                
How fast your heart is beating
                
Whether the rhythm of your heartbeat is steady or irregular
                
The strength and timing of electrical signals as they pass through each part of your heart
                
Doctors use EKGs to detect and study many heart problems, such as heart attacks, arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs), and heart failure. The test's results also can suggest other disorders that affect heart function."
1148,What are the genetic changes related to Carney complex ?,"Mutations in the PRKAR1A gene cause most cases of Carney complex. This gene provides instructions for making one part (subunit) of an enzyme called protein kinase A, which promotes cell growth and division (proliferation). The subunit produced from the PRKAR1A gene, called type 1 alpha, helps control whether protein kinase A is turned on or off.  Most mutations in the PRKAR1A gene that cause Carney complex result in an abnormal type 1 alpha subunit that is quickly broken down (degraded) by the cell. The lack of this subunit causes protein kinase A to be turned on more often than normal, which leads to uncontrolled cell proliferation. The signs and symptoms of Carney complex are related to the unregulated growth of cells in many parts of the body.  Some individuals with Carney complex do not have identified mutations in the PRKAR1A gene. In many of these cases, the disorder is associated with a specific region on the short (p) arm of chromosome 2, designated as 2p16. Researchers have not discovered the gene within this region that is responsible for Carney complex."
1149,What causes Primary gastrointestinal melanoma ?,"What causes primary melanoma of the small intestine? The cause of primary melanoma of the small intestine is currently unknown. Theories include that the cancer originated from a undetectable primary tumor that spontaneously (naturally) regressed on its own; that the cancer originated from a primary tumor that is so small it can not be detected using standard clinical and laboratory investigations; lastly, because melanocytes are not normally found in the stomach, a final theory is that the melanocytes are in the stomach because early melanocyte cells lost their way during the development of the baby in the womb, and that these misplaced cells later became cancerous."
1150,What is (are) Tay-Sachs disease ?,"Tay-Sachs disease is a rare inherited disorder that causes progressive destruction of nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. Tay-Sachs is caused by the absence of a vital enzyme called hexosaminidase-A (Hex-A). Without Hex-A, a fatty substance, or lipid, called GM2 ganglioside accumulates abnormally in cells, especially in the nerve cells of the brain. This ongoing accumulation causes progressive damage to the cells. Tay-Sachs disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern."
1151,What are the genetic changes related to thiopurine S-methyltransferase deficiency ?,"TPMT deficiency results from changes in the TPMT gene. This gene provides instructions for making the TPMT enzyme, which plays a critical role in breaking down (metabolizing) thiopurine drugs. Once inside the body, these drugs are converted to toxic compounds that kill immune system cells in the bone marrow. The TPMT enzyme ""turns off"" thiopurine drugs by breaking them down into inactive, nontoxic compounds. Changes in the TPMT gene reduce the stability and activity of the TPMT enzyme. Without enough of this enzyme, the drugs cannot be ""turned off,"" so they stay in the body longer and continue to destroy cells unchecked. The resulting damage to the bone marrow leads to potentially life-threatening myelosuppression."
1152,What to do for Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis ?,"- Peritoneal dialysis is a treatment for kidney failure that uses the lining of your abdomen, or belly, to filter your blood inside your body.  - The two types of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis and automated peritoneal dialysis.  - The most common problem with peritoneal dialysis is peritonitis, a serious abdominal infection.  - When dialysis solution stays in the body too long, it becomes so full of wastes and extra fluid that it cannot absorb any more from the body. The process may even reverse, letting some wastes and extra fluid back into the body.  - Eating the right foods can help you feel better while on peritoneal dialysis. Talk with your dialysis centers dietitian to find a meal plan that works for you."
1153,What are the genetic changes related to Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome ?,"Mutations in the KCNE1 and KCNQ1 genes cause Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome.  The KCNE1 and KCNQ1 genes provide instructions for making proteins that work together to form a channel across cell membranes. These channels transport positively charged potassium atoms (ions) out of cells. The movement of potassium ions through these channels is critical for maintaining the normal functions of inner ear structures and cardiac muscle.  About 90 percent of cases of Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome are caused by mutations in the KCNQ1 gene; KCNE1 mutations are responsible for the remaining cases. Mutations in these genes alter the usual structure and function of potassium channels or prevent the assembly of normal channels. These changes disrupt the flow of potassium ions in the inner ear and in cardiac muscle, leading to hearing loss and an irregular heart rhythm characteristic of Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome."
1154,What are the genetic changes related to Pendred syndrome ?,"Mutations in the SLC26A4 gene cause about half of all cases of Pendred syndrome. The SLC26A4 gene provides instructions for making a protein called pendrin. This protein transports negatively charged particles (ions), including chloride, iodide, and bicarbonate, into and out of cells. Although the function of pendrin is not fully understood, this protein is important for maintaining the proper levels of ions in the thyroid and the inner ear. Mutations in the SLC26A4 gene alter the structure or function of pendrin, which disrupts ion transport. An imbalance of particular ions disrupts the development and function of the thyroid gland and structures in the inner ear, which leads to the characteristic features of Pendred syndrome.  In people with Pendred syndrome who do not have mutations in the SLC26A4 gene, the cause of the condition is unknown. Researchers suspect that other genetic and environmental factors may influence the condition."
1155,What are the treatments for Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer.     - Patients with paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer should have their treatment planned by a team of doctors with expertise in treating head and neck cancer.    - Three types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery      - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy         - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Patients with paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer should have their treatment planned by a team of doctors with expertise in treating head and neck cancer.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a medical oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating people with cancer. The medical oncologist works with other doctors who are experts in treating patients with head and neck cancer and who specialize in certain areas of medicine and rehabilitation. Patients who have paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer may need special help adjusting to breathing problems or other side effects of the cancer and its treatment. If a large amount of tissue or bone around the paranasal sinuses or nasal cavity is taken out, plastic surgery may be done to repair or rebuild the area. The treatment team may include the following specialists:          -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Neurologist.    -  Oral surgeon or head and neck surgeon.    -  Plastic surgeon.    -  Dentist.    -  Nutritionist.    -  Speech and language pathologist.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.
                
                
                    Three types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery      Surgery (removing the cancer in an operation) is a common treatment for all stages of paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. A doctor may remove the cancer and some of the healthy tissue and bone around the cancer. If the cancer has spread, the doctor may remove lymph nodes and other tissues in the neck.     Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, some patients may be given chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer. The total dose of radiation therapy is sometimes divided into several smaller, equal doses delivered over a period of several days. This is called fractionation.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External and internal radiation therapy are used to treat paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer.    External radiation therapy to the thyroid or the pituitary gland may change the way the thyroid gland works. The thyroid hormone levels in the blood may be tested before and after treatment.       Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Combination chemotherapy is treatment using more than one anticancer drug.    The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Head and Neck Cancer for more information. (Paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer is a type of head and neck cancer.)
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options by Stage
		            
		                
		                    Stage I Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage I paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer depends on where cancer is found in the paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity:         - If cancer is in the maxillary sinus, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy.     - If cancer is in the ethmoid sinus, treatment is usually radiation therapy and/or surgery.     - If cancer is in the sphenoid sinus, treatment is the same as for nasopharyngeal cancer, usually radiation therapy. (See the PDQ summary on Nasopharyngeal Cancer Treatment for more information.)    - If cancer is in the nasal cavity, treatment is usually surgery and/or radiation therapy.    - If cancer is in the nasal vestibule, treatment is usually surgery or radiation therapy.    - For inverting papilloma, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy.     - For melanoma and sarcoma, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy and chemotherapy.     - For midline granuloma, treatment is usually radiation therapy.         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage II Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage II paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer depends on where cancer is found in the paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity:         - If cancer is in the maxillary sinus, treatment is usually high-dose radiation therapy before or after surgery.     - If cancer is in the ethmoid sinus, treatment is usually radiation therapy and/or surgery.     - If cancer is in the sphenoid sinus, treatment is the same as for nasopharyngeal cancer, usually radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy. (See the PDQ summary on Nasopharyngeal Cancer Treatment for more information.)     - If cancer is in the nasal cavity, treatment is usually surgery and/or radiation therapy.     - If cancer is in the nasal vestibule, treatment is usually surgery or radiation therapy.    - For inverting papilloma, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy.     - For melanoma and sarcoma, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy and chemotherapy.     - For midline granuloma, treatment is usually radiation therapy.         Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage III Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage III paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer depends on where cancer is found in the paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity.   If cancer is in the maxillary sinus, treatment may include the following:          -  High-dose radiation therapy before or after surgery.    - A clinical trial of fractionated radiation therapy before or after surgery.        If cancer is in the ethmoid sinus, treatment may include the following:          - Surgery followed by radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.        If cancer is in the sphenoid sinus, treatment is the same as for nasopharyngeal cancer, usually radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy. (See the PDQ summary on Nasopharyngeal Cancer Treatment for more information.)   If cancer is in the nasal cavity, treatment may include the following:          - Surgery and/or radiation therapy.    - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.        For inverting papilloma, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy.   For melanoma and sarcoma, treatment may include the following:         - Surgery.    - Radiation therapy.    - Surgery, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy.        For midline granuloma, treatment is usually radiation therapy.   If cancer is in the nasal vestibule, treatment may include the following:         -  External radiation therapy and/or internal radiation therapy with or without surgery.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of combination chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Stage IV Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer
		                    Treatment of stage IV paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer depends on where cancer is found in the paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity.   If cancer is in the maxillary sinus, treatment may include the following:         -  High-dose radiation therapy with or without surgery.    - A clinical trial of fractionated radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.        If cancer is in the ethmoid sinus, treatment may include the following:          - Radiation therapy before or after surgery.    - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.        If cancer is in the sphenoid sinus, treatment is the same as for nasopharyngeal cancer, usually radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy. (See the PDQ summary on Nasopharyngeal Cancer Treatment for more information.)   If cancer is in the nasal cavity, treatment may include the following:          - Surgery and/or radiation therapy.    - Chemotherapy and radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.        For inverting papilloma, treatment is usually surgery with or without radiation therapy.   For melanoma and sarcoma, treatment may include the following:         - Surgery.    - Radiation therapy.    - Chemotherapy.        For midline granuloma, treatment is usually radiation therapy.   If cancer is in the nasal vestibule, treatment may include the following:         -  External radiation therapy and/or internal radiation therapy with or without surgery.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy before surgery or radiation therapy.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy after surgery or other cancer treatment.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IV paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
1156,How many people are affected by GRN-related frontotemporal dementia ?,"GRN-related frontotemporal dementia affects an estimated 3 to 15 per 100,000 people aged 45 to 64. This condition accounts for 5 to 10 percent of all cases of frontotemporal dementia."
1157,How to prevent Urinary Tract Infections ?,"Changing some of these daily habits may help prevent UTIs. - Wipe from front to back after using the toilet. Women should wipe from front to back to keep bacteria from getting into the urethra. This step is most important after a bowel movement.  Wipe from front to back after using the toilet. Women should wipe from front to back to keep bacteria from getting into the urethra. This step is most important after a bowel movement.  - Drink lots of fluid, especially water. Fluids can help flush bacteria from the urinary system. Water is best. Most healthy people should try to drink six to eight, 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day. (Some people need to drink less water because of certain conditions. For example, if you have kidney failure or heart disease, you should not drink this much fluid. Ask your health care provider how much fluid is healthy for you.)  Drink lots of fluid, especially water. Fluids can help flush bacteria from the urinary system. Water is best. Most healthy people should try to drink six to eight, 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day. (Some people need to drink less water because of certain conditions. For example, if you have kidney failure or heart disease, you should not drink this much fluid. Ask your health care provider how much fluid is healthy for you.)  - Urinate often and when the urge arises. Try to urinate at least every 3 to 4 hours. Bacteria are more likely to grow in the bladder when urine stays in the bladder too long.  Urinate often and when the urge arises. Try to urinate at least every 3 to 4 hours. Bacteria are more likely to grow in the bladder when urine stays in the bladder too long. - Urinate after sex. Both women and men should urinate shortly after sex to flush away bacteria that may have entered the urethra during sex.  Urinate after sex. Both women and men should urinate shortly after sex to flush away bacteria that may have entered the urethra during sex. - Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes. Wearing looser, cotton clothing will allow air to keep the area around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans and nylon underwear should be avoided because they can trap moisture and help bacteria grow. Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes. Wearing looser, cotton clothing will allow air to keep the area around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans and nylon underwear should be avoided because they can trap moisture and help bacteria grow. Drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry supplements also may help prevent UTIs. Some studies have shown that cranberry products make UTIs less likely, especially in people who get UTIs often. But in other studies, cranberry products did not help."
1158,What is the outlook for Alexander Disease ?,"The prognosis for individuals with Alexander disease is generally poor. Most children with the infantile form do not survive past the age of 6. Juvenile and adult onset forms of the disorder have a slower, more lengthy course."
1159,What are the symptoms of Insulinoma ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Insulinoma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Insulinoma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Insulinoma - Somatic mutation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1160,What is (are) Autoimmune myocarditis ?,"Autoimmune myocarditis is an autoimmune disease that affects the heart. The condition is characterized by inflammation of the heart muscle (myocardium). Some people with autoimmune myocarditis have no noticeable symptoms of the condition. When present, signs and symptoms may include chest pain, abnormal heartbeat, shortness of breath, fatigue, signs of infection (i.e. fever, headache, sore throat, diarrhea), and leg swelling. The exact underlying cause of the condition is currently unknown; however, autoimmune conditions, in general, occur when the immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. In some cases, medications that suppress the immune system may be recommended."
1161,What is (are) Coronary Heart Disease ?,"Espaol
                
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a disease in which a waxy substance called plaque builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle.
                
When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosis. The buildup of plaque occurs over many years.
                
Atherosclerosis
                

                
Over time, plaque can harden or rupture (break open). Hardened plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to the heart.
                
If the plaque ruptures, a blood clot can form on its surface. A large blood clot can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery. Over time, ruptured plaque also hardens and narrows the coronary arteries.
                
Overview
                
If the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle is reduced or blocked, angina or a heart attack can occur.
                
Angina is chest pain or discomfort. It may feel like pressure or squeezing in your chest. The pain also can occur in your shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. Angina pain may even feel like indigestion.
                
A heart attack occurs if the flow of oxygen-rich blood to a section of heart muscle is cut off. If blood flow isnt restored quickly, the section of heart muscle begins to die. Without quick treatment, a heart attack can lead to serious health problems or death.
                
Over time, CHD can weaken the heart muscle and lead to heart failure and arrhythmias. Heart failure is a condition in which your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your bodys needs. Arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat.
                
Outlook
                
Lifestyle changes, medicines, and medical procedures can help prevent or treat coronary heart disease. These treatments may reduce the risk of related health problems."
1162,What are the treatments for Dumping Syndrome ?,"Treatment for dumping syndrome includes changes in eating, diet, and nutrition; medication; and, in some cases, surgery. Many people with dumping syndrome have mild symptoms that improve over time with simple dietary changes."
1163,What are the stages of Renal Cell Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - After renal cell cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the kidney or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for renal cell cancer:         - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After renal cell cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the kidney or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the kidney or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process:          -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).     -   Chest x-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if renal cell cancer spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually cancerous renal cells. The disease is metastatic renal cell cancer, not bone cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for renal cell cancer:
                    Stage I    In stage I, the tumor is 7 centimeters or smaller and is found only in the kidney.       Stage II    In stage II, the tumor is larger than 7 centimeters and is found only in the kidney.        Stage III    In stage III:            - the tumor is any size and cancer is found only in the kidney and in 1 or more nearby lymph nodes; or      - cancer is found in the main blood vessels of the kidney or in the layer of fatty tissue around the kidney. Cancer may be found in 1 or more nearby lymph nodes.              Stage IV    In stage IV, cancer has spread:            - beyond the layer of fatty tissue around the kidney and may be found in the adrenal gland above the kidney with cancer, or in nearby lymph nodes; or     - to other organs, such as the lungs, liver, bones, or brain, and may have spread to lymph nodes."
1164,What is (are) Isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome ?,"Isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome is a chromosome abnormality that affects many different parts of the body. As the name suggests, people with this condition have an extra chromosome (called an isodicentric chromosome 15) which is made of two pieces of chromosome 15 that are stuck together end-to-end. Although the severity of the condition and the associated features vary from person to person, common signs and symptoms include poor muscle tone in newborns; developmental delay; mild to severe intellectual disability; delayed or absent speech; behavioral abnormalities; and seizures. Most cases of isodicentric chromosome 15 syndrome occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1165,What causes Neonatal progeroid syndrome ?,"What causes neonatal progeroid syndrome? The exact underlying cause of neonatal progeroid syndrome is unknown. Scientists suspect that it is a genetic condition; however, a disease-causing gene has not been identified."
1166,What are the treatments for Retroperitoneal fibrosis ?,"How might retroperitoneal fibrosis be treated? Treatment of retroperitoneal fibrosis may include: Corticosteroid therapy Tamoxifen Surgery Stents Corticosteroids are tried first. Dosing will be prescribed on a case by case basis, but doses often vary between 30 and 60 mg per day. Corticosteroids are then tapered slowly. Some people with retroperitoneal fibrosis may continue on low dose maintenance therapy for up to 2 years. If corticosteroid treatment doesn't work, a biopsy should be done to confirm the diagnosis. Other medicines to suppress the immune system, such as mycophenolate mofetil, methotrexate, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide or tamoxifen can be prescribed alone or in combination with corticosteroids. When medicine does not work, surgery and stents (draining tubes) are considered. Stents (drainage tubes) placed in the ureter or in the renal pelvis may provide short-term relief of the symptoms until the condition is surgically treated. Surgery aims to remove the mass and/or free the ureters."
1167,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parkinson's Disease ?,"In recent years, research on Parkinson's has advanced to the point that halting the progression of the disease, restoring lost function, and even preventing the disease are all considered realistic goals. While the goal of preventing Parkinson's disease may take years to achieve, researchers are making great progress in understanding and treating it. Genetics Research One of the most exciting areas of Parkinson's research is genetics. Studying the genes responsible for inherited cases can help researchers understand both inherited and sporadic cases of the disease. Identifying gene defects can also help researchers -  understand how Parkinson's occurs  -  develop animal models that accurately mimic the death of nerve cells in humans  - identify new approaches to drug therapy  - improve diagnosis.  understand how Parkinson's occurs develop animal models that accurately mimic the death of nerve cells in humans identify new approaches to drug therapy improve diagnosis. Researchers funded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke are gathering information and DNA samples from hundreds of families with members who have Parkinson's and are conducting large-scale studies to identify gene variants that are associated with increased risk of developing the disease. They are also comparing gene activity in Parkinson's with gene activity in similar diseases such as progressive supranuclear palsy. In addition to identifying new genes for Parkinson's disease, researchers are trying to learn about the function of genes known to be associated with the disease, and about how gene mutations cause disease. Effects of Environmental Toxins Scientists continue to study environmental toxins such as pesticides and herbicides that can cause Parkinson's symptoms in animals. They have found that exposing rodents to the pesticide rotenone and several other agricultural chemicals can cause cellular and behavioral changes that mimic those seen in Parkinson's. Role of Lewy Bodies Other studies focus on how Lewy bodies form and what role they play in Parkinson's disease. Some studies suggest that Lewy bodies are a byproduct of a breakdown that occurs within nerve cells, while others indicate that Lewy bodies are protective, helping neurons ""lock away"" abnormal molecules that might otherwise be harmful. Identifying Biomarkers Biomarkers for Parkinson's -- measurable characteristics that can reveal whether the disease is developing or progressing -- are another focus of research. Such biomarkers could help doctors detect the disease before symptoms appear and improve diagnosis of the disease. They also would show if medications and other types of therapy have a positive or negative effect on the course of the disease. The National Disorders of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has developed an initiative, the Parkinsons Disease Biomarkers Identification Network (PD-BIN), designed specifically to address these questions and to discover and validate biomarkers for Parkinsons disease. Transcranial Therapies Researchers are conducting many studies of new or improved therapies for Parkinson's disease. Studies are testing whether transcranial electrical polarization (TEP) or transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can reduce the symptoms of the disease. In TEP, electrodes placed on the scalp are used to generate an electrical current that modifies signals in the brain's cortex. In TMS, an insulated coil of wire on the scalp is used to generate a brief electrical current. Drug Discovery A variety of new drug treatments for Parkinson's disease are in clinical trials. Several MAO-B inhibitors including selegiline, lazabemide, and rasagiline, are being tested to determine if they have neuroprotective effects in people with Parkinsons disease. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke has launched a broad effort to find drugs to slow the progression of Parkinson's disease, called NET-PD or NIH Exploratory Trials in Parkinson's Disease. The first studies tested several compounds; one of these, creatine, is now being evaluated in a larger clinical trial. The NET-PD investigators are testing a highly purified form of creatine, a nutritional supplement, to find out if it slows the decline seen in people with Parkinson's. Creatine is a widely used dietary supplement thought to improve exercise performance. Cellular energy is stored in a chemical bond between creatine and a phosphate. More recently, NET-PD has initiated pilot studies to test pioglitazone, a drug that has been shown to stimulate mitochondrial function. Because mitochondrial function may be less active in Parkinsons disease, this drug may protect vulnerable dopamine neurons by boosting mitochondrial function. Cell Implantation Another potential approach to treating Parkinson's disease is to implant cells to replace those lost in the disease. Starting in the 1990s, researchers conducting a controlled clinical trial of fetal tissue implants tried to replace lost dopamine-producing nerve cells with healthy ones from fetal tissue in order to improve movement and the response to medications. While many of the implanted cells survived in the brain and produced dopamine, this therapy was associated with only modest functional improvements, mostly in patients under the age of 60. Some of the people who received the transplants developed disabling dyskinesias that could not be relieved by reducing anti-parkinsonian medications. Stem Cells Another type of cell therapy involves stem cells. Some stem cells derived from embryos can develop into any kind of cell in the body, while others, called progenitor cells, are less flexible. Researchers are developing methods to improve the number of dopamine-producing cells that can be grown from embryonic stem cells in culture. Other researchers are also exploring whether stem cells from adult brains might be useful in treating Parkinson's disease. Recent studies suggest that some adult cells from skin can be reprogrammed to an embryonic-like state, resulting in induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) that may someday be used for treatment of Parkinsons. In addition, development and characterization of cells from people with sporadic or inherited Parkinsons may reveal information about cellular mechanisms of disease and identify targets for drug development. Gene Therapy A number of early clinical trials are now underway to test whether gene therapy can improve Parkinson's disease. Genes which are found to improve cellular function in models of Parkinson's are inserted into modified viruses. The genetically engineered viruses are then injected into the brains of people with Parkinson's disease. Clinical studies have focused on the therapeutic potential of neurotrophic factors, including GDNF and neurturin, and enzymes that produce dopamine. These trials will test whether the viruses, by lending to the production of the protective gene product, improve symptoms of Parkinson's over time. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke also supports the Morris K. Udall Centers of Excellence for Parkinson's Disease Research program . These Centers, located across the USA, study cellular mechanisms underlying Parkinsons disease, identify and characterize disease-associated genes, and discover and develop potential therapeutic targets. The Centers' multidisciplinary research environment allows scientists to take advantage of new discoveries in the basic, translational and clinical sciences that could lead to clinical advances for Parkinsons disease."
1168,What are the symptoms of Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis? Many people affected by diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) have no signs or symptoms of the condition. When present, symptoms vary but many include: Stiffness which is most noticeable in the morning Pain when pressure is applied to the affected area Loss of range of motion Difficulty swallowing or a hoarse voice Tingling, numbness, and/or weakness in the legs The upper portion of the back (thoracic spine) is the most commonly affected site; however, people with DISH may also experience symptoms in other places such as the heels, ankles, knees, hips, shoulders, elbows, and/or hands. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Osteoarthritis 90% Obesity 50% Palmoplantar keratoderma 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Punctate palmar and solar hyperkeratosis - Vertebral hyperostosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1169,What are the symptoms of Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the skin - Aganglionic megacolon - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Colonic diverticula - Constipation - Diarrhea - Disproportionate tall stature - Elevated calcitonin - Elevated urinary epinephrine - Failure to thrive in infancy - Ganglioneuroma - High palate - Hyperlordosis - Joint laxity - Kyphosis - Medullary thyroid carcinoma - Muscular hypotonia - Myopathy - Nodular goiter - Parathyroid hyperplasia - Pectus excavatum - Pes cavus - Pheochromocytoma - Proximal femoral epiphysiolysis - Scoliosis - Thick eyebrow - Thick lower lip vermilion - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1170,What is (are) Erb-Duchenne and Dejerine-Klumpke Palsies ?,"The brachial plexus is a network of nerves that conducts signals from the spine to the shoulder, arm, and hand. Brachial plexus injuries are caused by damage to those nerves. Erb-Duchenne (Erb's) palsy refers to paralysis of the upper brachial plexus. Dejerine-Klumpke (Klumpke's) palsy refers to paralysis of the lower brachial plexus. Although injuries can occur at any time, many brachial plexus injuries happen when a baby's shoulders become impacted during delivery and the brachial plexus nerves stretch or tear. There are four types of brachial plexus injuries: avulsion, the most severe type, in which the nerve is torn from the spine; rupture, in which the nerve is torn but not at the spinal attachment; neuroma, in which the nerve has torn and healed but scar tissue puts pressure on the injured nerve and prevents it from conducting signals to the muscles; and neuropraxia or stretch, in which the nerve has been damaged but not torn. Neuropraxia is the most common type of brachial plexus injury. Symptoms of brachial plexus injury may include a limp or paralyzed arm; lack of muscle control in the arm, hand, or wrist; and lack of feeling or sensation in the arm or hand."
1171,What causes Parkinson's Disease ?,"A Shortage of Dopamine Parkinson's disease occurs when nerve cells, or neurons, in an area of the brain that controls movement become impaired and/or die. Normally, these neurons produce an important brain chemical known as dopamine, but when the neurons die or become impaired, they produce less dopamine. This shortage of dopamine causes the movement problems of people with Parkinson's. Dopamine is a chemical messenger, or neurotransmitter. Dopamine is responsible for transmitting signals between the substantia nigra and multiple brain regions. The connection between the substantia nigra and the corpus striatum is critical to produce smooth, purposeful movement. Loss of dopamine in this circuit results in abnormal nerve-firing patterns within the brain that cause impaired movement. Loss of Norepinephrine People with Parkinson's also have loss of the nerve endings that produce the neurotransmitter norepinephrine. Norepinephrine, which is closely related to dopamine, is the main chemical messenger of the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system controls many automatic functions of the body, such as heart rate and blood pressure. The loss of norepinephrine might help explain several of the non-movement features of Parkinson's, such as fatigue, irregular blood pressure, decreased gastric motility or movement of food through the digestive tract, and postural hypotension. Postural hypotension is a sudden drop in blood pressure when a person stands up from a sitting or lying-down position. It may cause dizziness, lightheadedness, and in some cases, loss of balance or fainting. Lewy Bodies in Brain Cells Many brain cells of people with Parkinson's contain Lewy bodies. Lewy bodies are unusual deposits or clumps of the brain protein alpha-synuclein, along with other proteins, which are seen upon microscopic examination of the brain. Researchers do not yet know why Lewy bodies form or what role they play in the development of Parkinson's. The clumps may prevent the cell from functioning normally, or they may actually be helpful, perhaps by keeping harmful proteins ""locked up"" so the cells can function. Genetic Mutations Although some cases of Parkinson's appear to be hereditary, and a few can be traced to specific genetic mutations, most cases are sporadic. Sporadic means the disease occurs randomly and does not seem to run in families. Many researchers now believe that Parkinson's disease results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Scientists have identified several genetic mutations associated with Parkinson's including mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene. They think that many more genes may be linked to the disorder. Studying the genes responsible for inherited cases of Parkinson's can help researchers understand both inherited and sporadic cases. The same genes and proteins that are altered in inherited cases may also be altered in sporadic cases by environmental toxins or other factors. Researchers also hope that discovering genes will help identify new ways of treating Parkinson's. Environmental Toxins Although researchers increasingly recognize the importance of genetics in Parkinson's disease, most believe environmental exposures increase a person's risk of developing the disease. Even in inherited cases, exposure to toxins or other environmental factors may influence when symptoms of the disease appear or how the disease progresses. There are a number of toxins that can cause parkinsonian symptoms in humans. Researchers are pursuing the question of whether pesticides and other environmental factors not yet identified also may cause Parkinson's disease. Viruses are another possible environmental trigger for Parkinson's. Mitochondria and Free Radicals Research suggests that mitochondria may play a role in the development of Parkinson's disease. Mitochondria are the energy-producing components of the cell and are major sources of free radicals. Free radicals are molecules that damage membranes, proteins, DNA, and other parts of the cell. This damage is called oxidative stress. Changes to brain cells caused by oxidative stress, including free radical damage to DNA, proteins, and fats, have been found in people with Parkinson's. Clinical studies now underway test whether agents thought to improve energy metabolism and decrease oxidative stress slow the progression of Parkinson's disease. Recent evidence suggests that mutations in genes linked to Parkinsons disease result in mitochondrial dysfunction. Buildup of Harmful Proteins Other research suggests that the cell's protein disposal system may fail in people with Parkinson's, causing proteins like alpha-synuclein to build up to harmful levels and trigger premature cell death. Additional studies have found that clumps of protein that develop inside brain cells of people with Parkinson's may contribute to the death of nerve cells, or neurons. However, the exact role of the protein deposits remains unknown. These studies also found that inflammation, because of protein accumulation, toxins or other factors, may play a role in the disease. However, the exact role of the protein deposits remains unknown. Researchers are exploring the possibility of vaccine development to decrease or prevent the accumulation of alpha-synuclein. While mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, inflammation, and many other cellular processes may contribute to Parkinson's disease, scientists still do not know what causes cells that produce dopamine to die. Genes Linked to Parkinsons Researchers have discovered several genes that are linked to Parkinson's disease. The first to be identified was alpha-synuclein or SNCA . Studies have found that Lewy bodies from people with the sporadic form of Parkinson's contain clumps of alpha-synuclein protein. This discovery revealed a possible link between hereditary and sporadic forms of the disease. Other genes linked to Parkinson's include PARK2, PARK7, PINK1, and LRRK2. PARK2, PARK7, and PINK1 cause rare, early-onset forms of the disease. Mutations in the LRRK2 gene are common in specific populations, including in people with Parkinson's in North Africa. Researchers are continuing to study the normal functions and interactions of these genes in order to find clues about how Parkinson's develops. They also have identified a number of other genes and chromosome regions that may play a role in Parkinson's, but the nature of these links is not yet clear. Whole genome wide association studies, or GWAS, of thousands of people with Parkinson's disease are now underway to find gene variants that allow for an increased risk of developing Parkinson's but are not necessarily causes of this disorder by themselves. A recent international study found that two genes containing mutations known to cause rare hereditary forms of Parkinsons disease are also associated with the more common sporadic form of the disease. This finding came from a GWAS which looked at DNA samples of European people who had Parkinsons disease and from those who did not have the disorder."
1172,What are the treatments for Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH).    - Children with LCH should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating childhood cancer.     - Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment for childhood cancer has ended.    - Nine types of standard treatment are used:         - Chemotherapy     - Surgery     - Radiation therapy     - Photodynamic therapy     - Biologic therapy     - Targeted therapy     - Other drug therapy     - Stem cell transplant     - Observation        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.    - When treatment of LCH stops, new lesions may appear or old lesions may come back.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH).
                    Different types of treatments are available for patients with LCH. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Whenever possible, patients should take part in a clinical trial in order to receive new types of treatment for LCH. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website. Choosing the most appropriate treatment is a decision that ideally involves the patient, family, and health care team.
                
                
                    Children with LCH should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating childhood cancer.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other pediatric healthcare providers who are experts in treating children with LCH and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:          -  Pediatrician.    -  Primary care physician.    -  Pediatric surgeon.    -  Pediatric hematologist.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Neurologist.    -  Endocrinologist.    -  Pediatric nurse specialist.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.    -  Psychologist.    -  Social worker.
                
                
                    Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment for childhood cancer has ended.
                    Side effects from cancer treatment that begin during or after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment may include the following:         - Slow growth and development.    - Hearing loss.    - Bone, tooth, liver, and lung problems.    - Changes in mood, feeling, learning, thinking, or memory.    -  Second cancers, such as leukemia, retinoblastoma, Ewing sarcoma, brain or liver cancer.        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on your child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information.)   Many patients with multisystem LCH have late effects caused by treatment or by the disease itself. These patients often have long-term health problems that affect their quality of life.
                
                
                    Nine types of standard treatment are used:
                    Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly onto the skin or into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy).     Chemotherapy agents given by injection or by mouth are used to treat LCH. Chemotherapy agents include vinblastine, cytarabine, cladribine, and methotrexate. Nitrogen mustard is a drug that is put directly on the skin to treat small LCH lesions.       Surgery     Surgery may be used to remove LCH lesions and a small amount of nearby healthy tissue. Curettage is a type of surgery that uses a curette (a sharp, spoon-shaped tool) to scrape LCH cells from bone.    When there is severe liver or lung damage, the entire organ may be removed and replaced with a healthy liver or lung from a donor.        Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer. In LCH, a special lamp may be used to send ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation toward LCH skin lesions.       Photodynamic therapy     Photodynamic therapy is a cancer treatment that uses a drug and a certain type of laser light to kill cancer cells. A drug that is not active until it is exposed to light is injected into a vein. The drug collects more in cancer cells than in normal cells. For LCH, laser light is aimed at the skin and the drug becomes active and kills the cancer cells. Photodynamic therapy causes little damage to healthy tissue. Patients who have photodynamic therapy should not spend too much time in the sun.    In one type of photodynamic therapy, called psoralen and ultraviolet A (PUVA) therapy, the patient receives a drug called psoralen and then ultraviolet A radiation is directed to the skin.       Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Interferon is a type of biologic therapy used to treat LCH of the skin. Immunomodulators are also a type of biologic therapy. Thalidomide is an immunomodulator used to treat LCH.        Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to find and attack LCH cells without harming normal cells. Imatinib mesylate is a type of targeted therapy called a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It stops blood stem cells from turning into dendritic cells that may become cancer cells. Other types of kinase inhibitors that affect cells with mutations (changes) in the BRAF gene, such as dabrafenib and vemurafenib, are being studied in clinical trials for LCH.     A family of genes, called ras genes, may cause cancer when they are mutated. Ras genes make proteins that are involved in cell signaling pathways, cell growth, and cell death. Ras pathway inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy being studied in clinical trials. They block the actions of a mutated ras gene or its protein and may stop the growth of cancer.        Other drug therapy    Other drugs used to treat LCH include the following:            -  Steroid therapy, such as prednisone, is used to treat LCH lesions.     -  Bisphosphonate therapy (such as pamidronate, zoledronate, or alendronate) is used to treat LCH lesions of the bone and to lessen bone pain.      -  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are drugs (such as aspirin and ibuprofen) that are commonly used to decrease fever, swelling, pain, and redness. Sometimes an NSAID called indomethacin is used to treat LCH.     -  Retinoids, such as isotretinoin, are drugs related to vitamin A that can slow the growth of LCH cells in the skin. The retinoids are taken by mouth.              Stem cell transplant     Stem cell transplant is a method of giving chemotherapy and replacing blood-forming cells destroyed by the LCH treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.        Observation     Observation is closely monitoring a patient's condition without giving any treatment until signs or symptoms appear or change.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options for Childhood LCH and the Treatment Options for Adult LCH sections for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's clinical trials database.
                
                
                    When treatment of LCH stops, new lesions may appear or old lesions may come back.
                    Many patients with LCH get better with treatment. However, when treatment stops, new lesions may appear or old lesions may come back. This is called reactivation (recurrence) and may occur within one year after stopping treatment. Patients with multisystem disease are more likely to have a reactivation. More common sites of reactivation are bone, ears, or skin. Diabetes insipidus also may develop. Less common sites of reactivation include lymph nodes, bone marrow, spleen, liver, or lung. Some patients may have more than one reactivation over a number of years.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose LCH may be repeated. This is to see how well the treatment is working and if there are any new lesions. These tests may include:         -  Physical exam.    -  Neurological exam.    -  Ultrasound exam.    -  MRI.    -  CT scan.    -  PET scan.        Other tests that may be needed include:         -  Brain stem auditory evoked response (BAER) test: A test that measures the brain's response to clicking sounds or certain tones.     -  Pulmonary function test (PFT): A test to see how well the lungs are working. It measures how much air the lungs can hold and how quickly air moves into and out of the lungs. It also measures how much oxygen is used and how much carbon dioxide is given off during breathing. This is also called a lung function test.    -  Chest x-ray: An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.        Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options for LCH in Children
		            
		                
		                    Treatment of Low-Risk Disease in Children
		                    Skin Lesions    Treatment of childhood Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) skin lesions may include the following:            -  Observation.            When severe rashes, pain, ulceration, or bleeding occur, treatment may include the following:            -  Steroid therapy.     -  Chemotherapy, given by mouth.     - Nitrogen mustard applied to the skin.     -  Photodynamic therapy with psoralen and ultraviolet A (PUVA) therapy.     -  UVB radiation therapy.              Lesions in Bones or Other Low-Risk Organs    Treatment of childhood LCH bone lesions in the front, sides, or back of the skull, or in any other single bone may include the following:            -  Surgery (curettage) with or without steroid therapy.     - Low-dose radiation therapy for lesions that affect nearby organs.           Treatment of childhood LCH lesions in bones around the ears or eyes is done to lower the risk of diabetes insipidus and other long-term problems. Treatment may include:            -  Chemotherapy and steroid therapy.     - Surgery (curettage).           Treatment of childhood LCH lesions of the spine or thigh bone lesions may include:            -  Observation.     - Low-dose radiation therapy.     - Chemotherapy, for lesions that spread from the spine into nearby tissue.     - Surgery to strengthen the weakened bone by bracing or fusing the bones together.           Treatment of two or more bone lesions may include:             - Chemotherapy and steroid therapy.           Treatment of two or more bone lesions combined with childhood LCH skin lesions, lymph node lesions, or diabetes insipidus may include:             - Chemotherapy with or without steroid therapy.     -  Bisphosphonate therapy.
		                
		                
		                    Treatment of High-Risk Disease in Children
		                    Treatment of childhood LCH multisystem disease lesions in the spleen, liver, or bone marrow (with or without skin, bone, lymph node, lung, or pituitary gland lesions) may include:         -  Chemotherapy and steroid therapy. Higher doses of combination chemotherapy and steroid therapy may be given to patients whose tumors do not respond to initial chemotherapy.    - A liver transplant for patients with severe liver damage.        Treatment of childhood LCH central nervous system (CNS) lesions may include:         - Chemotherapy with or without steroid therapy.    - Steroid therapy.        Treatment of LCH CNS neurodegenerative syndrome may include:         -  Retinoid therapy.    - Chemotherapy.
		                
		                
		                    Treatment Options for Recurrent, Refractory, and Progressive Childhood LCH in Children
		                    Recurrent LCH is cancer that cannot be detected for some time after treatment and then comes back. Treatment of recurrent childhood LCH in the skin, bone, lymph nodes, gastrointestinal tract, pituitary gland, or central nervous system (low-risk organs) may include:         -  Chemotherapy with or without steroid therapy.    -  Bisphosphonate therapy.    -  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) therapy with indomethacin.    - A clinical trial of a targeted therapy.         Refractory LCH is cancer that does not get better with treatment. Treatment of refractory childhood LCH in high-risk organs and in multisystem low-risk organs may include high-dose chemotherapy. Treatment of childhood LCH in multisystem high-risk organs that did not respond to chemotherapy may include stem cell transplant.     Progressive LCH is cancer that continues to grow during treatment. Treatment of progressive childhood LCH in patients with multisystem disease may include anticancer drugs that have not been given to the patient before.
		                
		            
		        
		        
		            Treatment Options for LCH in Adults
		            
		                
		                    Treatment Options for LCH of the Lung in Adults
		                    Treatment for LCH of the lung in adults may include:         - Quitting smoking for all patients who smoke. Lung damage will get worse over time in patients who do not quit smoking. In patients who quit smoking, lung damage may get better or it may get worse over time.    -  Chemotherapy.    - Lung transplant for patients with severe lung damage.        Sometimes LCH of the lung will go away or not get worse even if it's not treated.
		                
		                
		                    Treatment Options for LCH of the Bone in Adults
		                    Treatment for LCH that affects only the bone in adults may include:         -  Surgery with or without steroid therapy.    -  Chemotherapy with or without low-dose radiation therapy.    - Radiation therapy.    -  Bisphosphonate therapy, for severe bone pain.
		                
		                
		                    Treatment Options for LCH of the Skin in Adults
		                    Treatment for LCH that affects only the skin in adults may include:         -  Surgery.    -  Steroid or other drug therapy applied or injected into the skin.    -  Photodynamic therapy with psoralen and ultraviolet A (PUVA) radiation.    -  UVB radiation therapy.    -  Chemotherapy or biologic therapy given by mouth, such as methotrexate, thalidomide, or interferon.    -  Retinoid therapy may be used if the skin lesions do not get better with other treatment.        Treatment for LCH that affects the skin and other body systems in adults may include:         - Chemotherapy.
		                
		                
		                    Treatment Options for Single-System and Multisystem LCH in Adults
		                    Treatment of single-system and multisystem disease in adults may include:         -  Chemotherapy with or without a drug given to weaken the immune system.     -  Bisphosphonate therapy, for severe bone pain.    - A clinical trial of a targeted therapy."
1173,What are the treatments for Meralgia Paresthetica ?,"Treatment for meralgia paresthetica is symptomatic and supportive. The majority of cases improve with conservative treatment by wearing looser clothing and losing weight. Medications used to treat neurogenic pain, such as anti-seizure or anti-depressant medications, may alleviate symptoms of pain. In a few cases, in which pain is persistent or severe, surgical intervention may be indicated."
1174,Do you have information about Weight Loss Surgery,"Summary : Weight loss surgery helps people with extreme obesity to lose weight. It may be an option if you cannot lose weight through diet and exercise or have serious health problems caused by obesity.    There are different types of weight loss surgery. They often limit the amount of food you can take in. Some types of surgery also affect how you digest food and absorb nutrients. All types have risks and complications, such as infections, hernias, and blood clots.    Many people who have the surgery lose weight quickly, but regain some weight later on. If you follow diet and exercise recommendations, you can keep most of the weight off. You will also need medical follow-up for the rest of your life.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1175,What is (are) Benign Essential Blepharospasm ?,"Benign essential blepharospasm (BEB) is a progressive neurological disorder characterized by involuntary muscle contractions and spasms of the eyelid muscles. It is a form of dystonia, a movement disorder in which muscle contractions cause sustained eyelid closure, twitching or repetitive movements. BEB begins gradually with increased frequency of eye blinking often associated with eye irritation. Other symptoms may include increasing difficulty in keeping the eyes open, and light sensitivity. Generally, the spasms occur during the day, disappear in sleep, and reappear after waking. As the condition progresses, the spasms may intensify, forcing the eyelids to remain closed for long periods of time, and thereby causing substantial visual disturbance or functional blindness. It is important to note that the blindness is caused solely by the uncontrollable closing of the eyelids and not by a dysfunction of the eyes. BEB occurs in both men and women, although it is especially common in middle-aged and elderly women."
1176,What is (are) Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 ?,"Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 (PCH1) is a genetic condition that affects the development of the brain. Individuals with this condition have an unusually small and underdeveloped cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that coordinates movement. A region of the brain called the pons also fails to develop properly. The pons, which is located at the base of the brain in an area called the brainstem, transmits signals from the cerebellum to the rest of the brain. Individuals with PCH1 also experience a degeneration of the anterior horn cells. Because of the anterior horn cell involvement, this condition bears a resemblance to infantile spinal muscular atrophy, with severe muscle weakness. Other signs and symptoms of PCH1 include very weak muscle tone (hypotonia), joint deformities called contractures, a small head size (microcephaly), and breathing problems that are present at birth. Mutations in the VRK1 gene have been identified in at least one family with PCH1. The condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Most children with PCH1 live only into infancy."
1177,What are the treatments for Necrotizing fasciitis ?,"How might necrotizing fasciitis be treated? Accurate and prompt diagnosis, treatment with intravenous (IV) antibiotics, and surgery to remove dead tissue are all important for treating necrotizing fasciitis. Since the blood supply to the infected tissue is impaired, antibiotics cannot penetrate into the infected tissue. As a result, surgery to remove the dead, damaged, or infected tissue is the cornerstone of treatment for necrotizing fasciitis. In addition, early surgical treatment may minimize tissue loss, eliminating the need for amputation of the infected extremity. The choice of antibiotics will likely depend on the particular bacteria involved. Supplemental oxygen, fluids, and medicines may be needed to raise the blood pressure. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy and intravenous immunoglobulin may also be considered, but their use in patients with NF is considered controversial by some."
1178,What is (are) Pulmonary arterial hypertension ?,"Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive condition that affects the heart and lungs. It is characterized by abnormally high blood pressure (hypertension) in the pulmonary artery, the blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the lungs. The most common signs and symptoms are shortness of breath (dyspnea) during exertion and fainting spells. As the condition worsens, people can experience dizziness, swelling (edema) of the ankles or legs, chest pain, and a racing pulse. Most cases of PAH occur in individuals with no family history of the disorder. Although some cases are due to mutations in the BMPR2 gene and inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, a gene mutation has not yet been identified in most individuals. When PAH is inherited from an affected relative it is called ""familial"" PAH. Cases with no identifiable cause may be referred to as ""idiopathic"" PAH. PAH can also occur secondary to an underlying disorder such as connective tissue diseases, HIV infection, chronic hemolytic anemia, and congenital heart disease, to name a few. PAH can also be induced by certain drugs and toxins, for example fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine (appetite suppressants now banned by the FDA), toxic rapeseed oil, and amphetamines."
1179,"What are the symptoms of Tremor hereditary essential, 2 ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Tremor hereditary essential, 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tremor hereditary essential, 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Upper limb postural tremor - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1180,What are the treatments for Amyloidosis and Kidney Disease ?,"A health care provider treats dialysis-related amyloidosis with
                
- medication therapy  - newer, more effective hemodialysis filters  - surgery  - a kidney transplant
                
The goal of medication therapy and the use of newer, more effective hemodialysis filters is to reduce amyloid protein levels in the blood. Medication therapy can help reduce symptoms such as pain and inflammation. A health care provider may treat a person with dialysis-related amyloidosis who has bone, joint, and tendon problems, such as bone cysts and carpal tunnel syndrome, using surgery.
                
Dialysis-related amyloidosis has no cure; however, a successful kidney transplant may stop the disease from progressing.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Transplantation."
1181,Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  As the altered ATXN3 gene is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Anticipation tends to be more prominent when the ATXN3 gene is inherited from a person's father (paternal inheritance) than when it is inherited from a person's mother (maternal inheritance).  In rare cases, individuals have been reported with expanded CAG repeats on both copies of the ATXN3 gene in each cell. These people have more severe signs and symptoms than people with only one mutation, and features of the condition appear in childhood."
1182,What is (are) von Willebrand disease ?,"Von Willebrand disease is a bleeding disorder that slows the blood clotting process, causing prolonged bleeding after an injury. People with this condition often experience easy bruising, long-lasting nosebleeds, and excessive bleeding or oozing following an injury, surgery, or dental work. Mild forms of von Willebrand disease may become apparent only when abnormal bleeding occurs following surgery or a serious injury. Women with this condition typically have heavy or prolonged bleeding during menstruation (menorrhagia), and some may also experience reproductive tract bleeding during pregnancy and childbirth. In severe cases of von Willebrand disease, heavy bleeding occurs after minor trauma or even in the absence of injury (spontaneous bleeding). Symptoms of von Willebrand disease may change over time. Increased age, pregnancy, exercise, and stress may cause bleeding symptoms to become less frequent.  Von Willebrand disease is divided into three types, with type 2 being further divided into four subtypes. Type 1 is the mildest and most common of the three types, accounting for 75 percent of affected individuals. Type 3 is the most severe and rarest form of the condition. The four subtypes of type 2 von Willebrand disease are intermediate in severity. Another form of the disorder, acquired von Willebrand syndrome, is not caused by inherited gene mutations. Acquired von Willebrand syndrome is typically seen along with other disorders, such as diseases that affect bone marrow or immune cell function. This rare form of the condition is characterized by abnormal bleeding into the skin and other soft tissues, usually beginning in adulthood."
1183,What is (are) oculofaciocardiodental syndrome ?,"Oculofaciocardiodental (OFCD) syndrome is a condition that affects the development of the eyes (oculo-), facial features (facio-), heart (cardio-) and teeth (dental). This condition occurs only in females.  The eye abnormalities associated with OFCD syndrome can affect one or both eyes. Many people with this condition are born with eyeballs that are abnormally small (microphthalmia). Other eye problems can include clouding of the lens (cataract) and a higher risk of glaucoma, an eye disease that increases the pressure in the eye. These abnormalities can lead to vision loss or blindness.  People with OFCD syndrome often have a long, narrow face with distinctive facial features, including deep-set eyes and a broad nasal tip that is divided by a cleft. Some affected people have an opening in the roof of the mouth called a cleft palate.  Heart defects are another common feature of OFCD syndrome. Babies with this condition may be born with a hole between two chambers of the heart (an atrial or ventricular septal defect) or a leak in one of the valves that controls blood flow through the heart (mitral valve prolapse).  Teeth with very large roots (radiculomegaly) are characteristic of OFCD syndrome. Additional dental abnormalities can include delayed loss of primary (baby) teeth, missing or abnormally small teeth, misaligned teeth, and defective tooth enamel."
1184,What are the genetic changes related to polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy ?,"Mutations in the TREM2 gene or the TYROBP gene (also called DAP12) can cause PLOSL. The proteins produced from these two genes work together to activate certain kinds of cells. These proteins appear to be particularly important in osteoclasts, which are specialized cells that break down and remove (resorb) bone tissue that is no longer needed. These cells are involved in bone remodeling, which is a normal process that replaces old bone tissue with new bone. The TREM2 and TYROBP proteins are also critical for the normal function of microglia, which are a type of immune cell in the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system). Although these proteins play essential roles in osteoclasts and microglia, their exact function in these cells is unclear.  Mutations in the TREM2 or TYROBP gene disrupt normal bone growth and lead to progressive brain abnormalities in people with PLOSL. Researchers believe that the bone changes seen with this disorder are related to malfunctioning osteoclasts, which are less able to resorb bone tissue during bone remodeling. In the central nervous system, TREM2 or TYROBP mutations cause widespread abnormalities of microglia. Researchers are working to determine how these abnormalities lead to the progressive neurological problems associated with PLOSL."
1185,Is deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency inherited ?,"Deoxyguanosine kinase deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. In most cases, the parents of an individual with this condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1186,What are the symptoms of Rutherfurd syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Rutherfurd syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Rutherfurd syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Gingival overgrowth 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Reduced number of teeth 90% Behavioral abnormality 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Corneal dystrophy - Delayed eruption of primary teeth - Failure of eruption of permanent teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1187,What are the symptoms of Autosomal dominant intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type A ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Autosomal dominant intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type A? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Autosomal dominant intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type A. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Areflexia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Axonal degeneration/regeneration - Distal sensory impairment - Foot dorsiflexor weakness - Hyporeflexia - Muscle cramps - Onion bulb formation - Onset - Pes cavus - Segmental peripheral demyelination - Segmental peripheral demyelination/remyelination - Steppage gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1188,Is Snyder-Robinson syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. No cases of Snyder-Robinson syndrome in females have been reported."
1189,What are the treatments for Paroxysmal Hemicrania ?,"The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) indomethacin often provides complete relief from symptoms. Other less effective NSAIDs, calcium-channel blocking drugs (such as verapamil), and corticosteroids may be used to treat the disorder. Patients with both paroxysmal hemicrania and trigeminal neuralgia (a condition of the 5th cranial nerve that causes sudden, severe pain typically felt on one side of the jaw or cheek) should receive treatment for each disorder."
1190,Is Andersen-Tawil syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, a person with Andersen-Tawil syndrome inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the KCNJ2 gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1191,What is (are) Baller-Gerold syndrome ?,"Baller-Gerold syndrome is a rare condition characterized by the premature fusion of certain skull bones (craniosynostosis) and abnormalities of bones in the arms and hands, sometimes referred to as radial ray anomalies. Many cases of Baller-Gerold syndrome are caused by mutations in the RECQL4 gene. These cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In a few reported cases, the characteristic features of Baller-Gerold syndrome have been associated with prenatal exposure to a drug called sodium valproate which is used to treat epilepsy and certain psychiatric disorders.  Treatment may include surgery for treatment of craniosynostosis or reconstruction of the index finger to functional thumb. The symptoms of Baller-Gerold syndrome overlap with features of Rothmund-Thomson syndrome and RAPADILINO syndrome which are also caused by the RECQL4 gene. Researchers are trying to determine if these conditions are separate disorders or part of a single syndrome with overlapping signs and symptoms."
1192,"What are the symptoms of Aganglionosis, total intestinal ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Aganglionosis, total intestinal? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Aganglionosis, total intestinal. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Total intestinal aganglionosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1193,How many people are affected by VACTERL association ?,"VACTERL association occurs in 1 in 10,000 to 40,000 newborns."
1194,What are the treatments for Multi-Infarct Dementia ?,"There is no treatment available to reverse brain damage that has been caused by a stroke. Treatment focuses on preventing future strokes by controlling or avoiding the diseases and medical conditions that put people at high risk for stroke: high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol, and cardiovascular disease. The best treatment for MID is prevention early in life  eating a healthy diet, exercising, not smoking, moderately using alcohol, and maintaining a healthy weight."
1195,What are the stages of Colon Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - After colon cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the colon or to other parts of the body.    - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for colon cancer:         - Stage 0 (Carcinoma in Situ)     - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After colon cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the colon or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the colon or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment.    The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process:         -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the abdomen or chest, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the colon. A substance called gadolinium is injected into the patient through a vein. The gadolinium collects around the cancer cells so they show up brighter in the picture. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do.    -   Chest x-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.    -   Surgery : A procedure to remove the tumor and see how far it has spread through the colon.    -   Lymph node biopsy : The removal of all or part of a lymph node. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells.    -   Complete blood count (CBC): A procedure in which a sample of blood is drawn and checked for the following:                - The number of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.      - The amount of hemoglobin (the protein that carries oxygen) in the red blood cells.      - The portion of the blood sample made up of red blood cells.             -   Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) assay : A test that measures the level of CEA in the blood. CEA is released into the bloodstream from both cancer cells and normal cells. When found in higher than normal amounts, it can be a sign of colon cancer or other conditions.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if colon cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually colon cancer cells. The disease is metastatic colon cancer, not lung cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for colon cancer:
                    Stage 0 (Carcinoma in Situ)     In stage 0, abnormal cells are found in the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon wall. These abnormal cells may become cancer and spread. Stage 0 is also called carcinoma in situ.       Stage I     In stage I, cancer has formed in the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon wall and has spread to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa). Cancer may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon wall.       Stage II      Stage II colon cancer is divided into stage IIA, stage IIB, and stage IIC.             - Stage IIA: Cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon wall to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall.      - Stage IIB: Cancer has spread through the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall but has not spread to nearby organs.      - Stage IIC: Cancer has spread through the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall to nearby organs.               Stage III     Stage III colon cancer is divided into stage IIIA, stage IIIB, and stage IIIC.     In stage IIIA:            -  Cancer has spread through the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon wall to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa) and may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon wall. Cancer has spread to at least one but not more than 3 nearby lymph nodes or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes; or     - Cancer has spread through the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon wall to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa). Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes.             In stage IIIB:            - Cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon wall to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall or has spread through the serosa but not to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to at least one but not more than 3 nearby lymph nodes or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes; or     - Cancer has spread to the muscle layer of the colon wall or to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes; or     - Cancer has spread through the mucosa (innermost layer) of the colon wall to the submucosa (layer of tissue under the mucosa) and may have spread to the muscle layer of the colon wall. Cancer has spread to 7 or more nearby lymph nodes.            In stage IIIC:            - Cancer has spread through the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall but has not spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to at least 4 but not more than 6 nearby lymph nodes; or     - Cancer has spread through the muscle layer of the colon wall to the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall or has spread through the serosa but has not spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to 7 or more nearby lymph nodes; or     - Cancer has spread through the serosa (outermost layer) of the colon wall and has spread to nearby organs. Cancer has spread to one or more nearby lymph nodes or cancer cells have formed in tissues near the lymph nodes.               Stage IV      Stage IV colon cancer is divided into stage IVA and stage IVB.            - Stage IVA: Cancer may have spread through the colon wall and may have spread to nearby organs or lymph nodes. Cancer has spread to one organ that is not near the colon, such as the liver, lung, or ovary, or to a distant lymph node.     - Stage IVB: Cancer may have spread through the colon wall and may have spread to nearby organs or lymph nodes. Cancer has spread to more than one organ that is not near the colon or into the lining of the abdominal wall."
1196,Is triple A syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1197,What are the symptoms of Westphal disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Westphal disease? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Westphal disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of movement 50% Abnormality of the voice 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Cerebral cortical atrophy 50% Developmental regression 50% EEG abnormality 50% Hypertonia 50% Rigidity 7.5% Abnormality of eye movement - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bradykinesia - Chorea - Dementia - Depression - Gliosis - Hyperreflexia - Neuronal loss in central nervous system - Personality changes - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1198,What are the symptoms of Dermatoosteolysis Kirghizian type ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dermatoosteolysis Kirghizian type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dermatoosteolysis Kirghizian type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal diaphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Abnormality of the wrist 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 90% Arthralgia 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 90% Nyctalopia 90% Osteoarthritis 90% Osteolysis 90% Reduced number of teeth 90% Scoliosis 90% Skin ulcer 90% Tarsal synostosis 90% Upper limb phocomelia 90% Ankle swelling - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blindness - Broad foot - Fever - Flexion contracture - Infantile onset - Joint contracture of the hand - Keratitis - Nail dysplasia - Nail dystrophy - Oligodontia - Split hand - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1199,How many people are affected by L1 syndrome ?,"L1 syndrome is estimated to occur in 1 in 25,000 to 60,000 males. Females are rarely affected by this condition."
1200,Who is at risk for Oxygen Therapy? ?,"Oxygen therapy can cause complications and side effects. These problems might include a dry or bloody nose, skin irritation from the nasal cannula or face mask, fatigue (tiredness), and morning headaches.
                
If these problems persist, tell your doctor and home equipment provider. Depending on the problem, your doctor may need to change your oxygen flow rate or the length of time you're using the oxygen.
                
If nose dryness is a problem, your doctor may recommend a nasal spray or have a humidifier added to your oxygen equipment.
                
If you have an uncomfortable nasal cannula or face mask, your home equipment provider can help you find a device that fits better. Your provider also can recommend over-the-counter gels and devices that are designed to lessen skin irritation.
                
Complications from transtracheal oxygen therapy can be more serious. With this type of oxygen therapy, oxygen is delivered through a tube inserted into your windpipe through the front of your neck.
                
With transtracheal oxygen therapy:
                
Mucus balls might develop on the tube inside the windpipe. Mucus balls tend to form as a result of the oxygen drying out the airways. Mucus balls can cause coughing and clog the windpipe or tube.
                
Problems with the tube slipping or breaking.
                
Infection.
                
Injury to the lining of the windpipe.
                
Proper medical care and correct handling of the tube and other supplies may reduce the risk of complications.
                
Other Risks
                
In certain people, oxygen therapy may suppress the drive to breathe, affecting how well the respiratory system works. This is managed by adjusting the oxygen flow rate.
                
Oxygen poses a fire risk, so you'll need to take certain safety steps. Oxygen itself isn't explosive, but it can worsen a fire. In the presence of oxygen, a small fire can quickly get out of control. Also, the cylinder that compressed oxygen gas comes in might explode if exposed to heat.
                
Your home equipment provider will give you a complete list of safety steps you'll need to take at home and when out in public.
                
For example, when you're not using the oxygen, keep it in an airy room. Never store compressed oxygen gas cylinders and liquid oxygen containers in small, enclosed places, such as in closets, behind curtains, or under clothes.
                
Oxygen containers let off small amounts of oxygen. These small amounts can build up to harmful levels if they're allowed to escape into small spaces."
1201,What are the genetic changes related to methylmalonic acidemia ?,"Mutations in the MUT, MMAA, MMAB, MMADHC, and MCEE genes cause methylmalonic acidemia. The long term effects of methylmalonic acidemia depend on which gene is mutated and the severity of the mutation.  About 60 percent of methylmalonic acidemia cases are caused by mutations in the MUT gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called methylmalonyl CoA mutase. This enzyme works with vitamin B12 (also called cobalamin) to break down several protein building blocks (amino acids), certain lipids, and cholesterol. Mutations in the MUT gene alter the enzyme's structure or reduce the amount of the enzyme, which prevents these molecules from being broken down properly. As a result, a substance called methylmalonyl CoA and other potentially toxic compounds can accumulate in the body's organs and tissues, causing the signs and symptoms of methylmalonic acidemia.  Mutations in the MUT gene that prevent the production of any functional enzyme result in a form of the condition designated mut0. Mut0 is the most severe form of methylmalonic acidemia and has the poorest outcome. Mutations that change the structure of methylmalonyl CoA mutase but do not eliminate its activity cause a form of the condition designated mut-. The mut- form is typically less severe, with more variable symptoms than the mut0 form.  Some cases of methylmalonic acidemia are caused by mutations in the MMAA, MMAB, or MMADHC gene. Proteins produced from the MMAA, MMAB, and MMADHC genes are needed for the proper function of methylmalonyl CoA mutase. Mutations that affect proteins produced from these three genes can impair the activity of methylmalonyl CoA mutase, leading to methylmalonic acidemia.  A few other cases of methylmalonic acidemia are caused by mutations in the MCEE gene. This gene provides instructions for producing an enzyme called methylmalonyl CoA epimerase. Like methylmalonyl CoA mutase, this enzyme also plays a role in the breakdown of amino acids, certain lipids, and cholesterol. Disruption in the function of methylmalonyl CoA epimerase leads to a mild form of methylmalonic acidemia.  It is likely that mutations in other, unidentified genes also cause methylmalonic acidemia."
1202,"What are the symptoms of Macular dystrophy, atypical vitelliform ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Macular dystrophy, atypical vitelliform? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Macular dystrophy, atypical vitelliform. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Reduced visual acuity 5% Visual field defect 5% Visual impairment 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Late onset - Macular dystrophy - Vitelliform-like macular lesions - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1203,Is alternating hemiplegia of childhood inherited ?,"Alternating hemiplegia of childhood is considered an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases of alternating hemiplegia of childhood result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. However, the condition can also run in families. For unknown reasons, the signs and symptoms are typically milder when the condition is found in multiple family members than when a single individual is affected."
1204,How to diagnose COACH syndrome ?,"How is COACH syndrome diagnosed? While there are no official guidelines, a diagnosis of COACH syndrome can be made when an individual is found to have both a particular malformation of the brain called cerebellar vermis hypoplasia (also referred to as the ""molar tooth sign"" due to the characteristic look of this malformation on brain imaging) and liver disease (specifically fibrosis)."
1205,What is (are) Pompe disease ?,"Pompe disease is an inherited disorder caused by the buildup of a complex sugar called glycogen in the body's cells. The accumulation of glycogen in certain organs and tissues, especially muscles, impairs their ability to function normally.  Researchers have described three types of Pompe disease, which differ in severity and the age at which they appear. These types are known as classic infantile-onset, non-classic infantile-onset, and late-onset.  The classic form of infantile-onset Pompe disease begins within a few months of birth. Infants with this disorder typically experience muscle weakness (myopathy), poor muscle tone (hypotonia), an enlarged liver (hepatomegaly), and heart defects. Affected infants may also fail to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive) and have breathing problems. If untreated, this form of Pompe disease leads to death from heart failure in the first year of life.  The non-classic form of infantile-onset Pompe disease usually appears by age 1. It is characterized by delayed motor skills (such as rolling over and sitting) and progressive muscle weakness. The heart may be abnormally large (cardiomegaly), but affected individuals usually do not experience heart failure. The muscle weakness in this disorder leads to serious breathing problems, and most children with non-classic infantile-onset Pompe disease live only into early childhood.  The late-onset type of Pompe disease may not become apparent until later in childhood, adolescence, or adulthood. Late-onset Pompe disease is usually milder than the infantile-onset forms of this disorder and is less likely to involve the heart. Most individuals with late-onset Pompe disease experience progressive muscle weakness, especially in the legs and the trunk, including the muscles that control breathing. As the disorder progresses, breathing problems can lead to respiratory failure."
1206,What is (are) Cold agglutinin disease ?,"Cold agglutinin disease is a rare type of autoimmune hemolytic anemia in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys its own red blood cells. When affected people's blood is exposed to cold temperatures (32 to 50 F), certain proteins that normally attack bacteria (IgM antibodies) attach themselves to red blood cells and bind them together into clumps (agglutination). This eventually causes red blood cells to be prematurely destroyed (hemolysis) leading to anemia and other associated signs and symptoms. Cold agglutinin disease can be primary (unknown cause) or secondary, due to an underlying condition such as an infection, another autoimmune disease, or certain cancers. Treatment depends on many factors including the severity of the condition, the signs and symptoms present in each person, and the underlying cause."
1207,Is rheumatoid arthritis inherited ?,"The inheritance pattern of rheumatoid arthritis is unclear because many genetic and environmental factors appear to be involved. However, having a close relative with rheumatoid arthritis likely increases a person's risk of developing the condition."
1208,What are the genetic changes related to mucolipidosis type IV ?,"Mutations in the MCOLN1 gene cause mucolipidosis type IV. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called mucolipin-1. This protein is located in the membranes of lysosomes and endosomes, compartments within the cell that digest and recycle materials. While its function is not completely understood, mucolipin-1 plays a role in the transport (trafficking) of fats (lipids) and proteins between lysosomes and endosomes. Mucolipin-1 appears to be important for the development and maintenance of the brain and retina. In addition, this protein is likely critical for normal functioning of the cells in the stomach that produce digestive acids.  Most mutations in the MCOLN1 gene result in the production of a nonfunctional protein or prevent any protein from being produced. A lack of functional mucolipin-1 impairs transport of lipids and proteins, causing these substances to build up inside lysosomes. Conditions that cause molecules to accumulate inside the lysosomes, including mucolipidosis type IV, are called lysosomal storage disorders. Two mutations in the MCOLN1 gene account for almost all cases of mucolipidosis type IV in people with Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. It remains unclear how mutations in this gene lead to the signs and symptoms of mucolipidosis type IV."
1209,What causes Primary carnitine deficiency ?,"What causes primary carnitine deficiency? Mutations in the SLC22A5 gene cause primary carnitine deficiency. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called OCTN2 that transports carnitine into cells. Cells need carnitine to bring certain types of fats (fatty acids) into mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers within cells. Fatty acids are a major source of energy for the heart and muscles. During periods of fasting, fatty acids are also an important energy source for the liver and other tissues. Mutations in the SLC22A5 gene result in an absent or dysfunctional OCTN2 protein. As a result, there is a shortage (deficiency) of carnitine within cells. This deficiency, as well as potential build-up of fatty acids within the cells, causes the signs and symptoms of the condition."
1210,What is (are) Rasmussen's Encephalitis ?,"Rasmussens encephalitis is a rare, chronic inflammatory neurological disease that usually affects only one hemisphere of the brain. It usually occurs in children under the age of 10 (more rarely in adolescents and adults), and is characterized by frequent and severe seizures, loss of motor skills and speech, paralysis on one side of the body (hemiparesis), inflammation of the brain (encephalitis), and mental deterioration. Most individuals with Rasmussens encephalitis will experience frequent seizures and progressive brain damage in the affected hemisphere of the brain over the course of the first 8 to 12 months, and then enter a phase of permanent, but stable, neurological deficits. Rasmussens encephalitis has features of an autoimmune disease in which immune system cells enter the brain and cause inflammation and damage.Research is ongoing into the causes of this rare disease."
1211,What causes Freiberg's disease ?,"What causes Freiberg's disease? The exact cause of Freiberg's disease is poorly understood. Some scientists believe that it is a multifactorial condition which is likely associated with the effects of multiple genes in combination with lifestyle and environmental factors. However, most current theories are centered on whether the triggering event is predominantly traumatic (injury-related) or vascular (consistent with avascular necrosis - an injury to the blood supply of the affected part of the foot)."
1212,How many people are affected by Kawasaki disease ?,"In the United States and other Western countries, Kawasaki disease occurs in approximately 1 in 10,000 children under 5 each year. The condition is 10 to 20 times more common in East Asia, including Japan, Korea, and Taiwan."
1213,What is (are) Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome ?,"Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is a genetic disorder characterized by severe insulin resistance. Insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas, regulates blood sugar levels by promoting the movement of glucose into cells for energy production or into the liver and fat cells for storage. Symptoms of Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome may include intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, hypertrophy of muscle and fat tissues, abnormalities of the head and face, abnormalities of the teeth and nails, and skin abnormalities such as acanthosis nigricans. Additional symptoms may also be present. Rabson-Mendenhall syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is difficult and may include high doses of insulin and/or recombinant insulin-like growth factor."
1214,What is (are) Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome ?,"Nicolaides-Baraitser syndrome (NCBRS) is a very rare condition characterized by severe intellectual disability and various physical features. Signs and symptoms may include seizures, short stature, sparse hair, distinctive facial characteristics, short fingers and toes (brachydactyly), and prominent joints in the fingers and toes (interphalangeal joints). Features of the condition can worsen over time. NCBRS is caused by changes (mutations) in the SMARCA2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. All cases reported to date have been sporadic, occurring in people with no family history of NCBRS."
1215,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Tourette Syndrome ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research in laboratories at the NIH and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Knowledge about TS comes from studies across a number of medical and scientific disciplines, including genetics, neuroimaging, neuropathology, clinical trials, epidemiology, neurophysiology, neuroimmunology, and descriptive/diagnostic clinical science. Findings from these studies will provide clues for more effective therapies."
1216,What are the complications of Polycystic Kidney Disease ?,"Babies with the most severe cases of autosomal recessive PKD often die hours or days after birth because they cannot breathe well enough to sustain life. Their lungs do not develop as they should during the prenatal period. Pressure from enlarged kidneys also contributes to breathing problems.
                
Children born with autosomal recessive PKD often develop kidney failure before reaching adulthood.
                
Liver scarring occurs in all people with autosomal recessive PKD and is usually present at birth. However, liver problems tend to become more of a concern as people with autosomal recessive PKD grow older. Liver scarring can lead to progressive liver dysfunction and other problems.
                
Additional complications of autosomal recessive PKD include high blood pressure and UTIs."
1217,What is (are) Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome type 5 ?,"Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome is an inherited condition that mainly affects the brain, immune system, and skin. It is characterized by early-onset severe brain dysfunction (encephalopathy) that usually results in severe intellectual and physical disability. Additional symptoms may include epilepsy, painful, itchy skin lesion (chilblains), vision problems, and joint stiffness. Symptoms usually progress over several months before the disease course stabilizes. There are six different types of Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome, which are distinguished by the gene that causes the condition: TREX1, RNASEH2A, RNASEH2B, RNASEH2C, SAMHD1, and ADAR genes. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, although rare autosomal dominant cases have been reported. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive."
1218,What are the genetic changes related to Coats plus syndrome ?,"Coats plus syndrome results from mutations in the CTC1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays an important role in structures known as telomeres, which are found at the ends of chromosomes. Telomeres are short, repetitive segments of DNA that help protect chromosomes from abnormally sticking together or breaking down (degrading). In most cells, telomeres become progressively shorter as the cell divides. After a certain number of cell divisions, the telomeres become so short that they trigger the cell to stop dividing or to self-destruct (undergo apoptosis). The CTC1 protein works as part of a group of proteins known as the CST complex, which is involved in the copying (replication) of telomeres. The CST complex helps prevent telomeres from being degraded in some cells as the cells divide.  Mutations in the CTC1 gene impair the function of the CST complex, which affects the replication of telomeres. However, it is unclear how CTC1 gene mutations impact telomere structure and function. Some studies have found that people with CTC1 gene mutations have abnormally short telomeres, while other studies have found no change in telomere length. Researchers are working to determine how telomeres are different in people with CTC1 gene mutations and how these changes could underlie the varied signs and symptoms of Coats plus syndrome."
1219,What are the genetic changes related to Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome ?,"At least nine genes are associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are used to make four distinct protein complexes. These protein complexes play a role in the formation and movement (trafficking) of a group of cell structures called lysosome-related organelles (LROs). LROs are very similar to compartments within the cell called lysosomes, which digest and recycle materials. However, LROs perform specialized functions and are found only in certain cell types. LROs have been identified in pigment-producing cells (melanocytes), blood-clotting cells (platelets), and lung cells.  Mutations in the genes associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome prevent the formation of LROs or impair the functioning of these cell structures. In general, mutations in genes that involve the same protein complex cause similar signs and symptoms. People with this syndrome have oculocutaneous albinism because the LROs within melanocytes cannot produce and distribute the substance that gives skin, hair, and eyes their color (melanin). Bleeding problems are caused by the absence of LROs within platelets, which affects the ability of platelets to stick together and form a blood clot. Mutations in some of the genes that cause Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome affect the normal functioning of LROs in lung cells, leading to pulmonary fibrosis.  Mutations in the HPS1 gene cause approximately 75 percent of the Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome cases from Puerto Rico. About 45 percent of affected individuals from other populations have mutations in the HPS1 gene. Mutations in the HPS3 gene are found in about 25 percent of affected people from Puerto Rico and in approximately 20 percent of affected individuals from other areas. The other genes associated with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome each account for a small percentage of cases of this condition.  In some people with Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, the genetic cause of the disorder is unknown."
1220,What is (are) lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia ?,"Lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia (LCH) affects brain development, resulting in the brain having a smooth appearance (lissencephaly) instead of its normal folds and grooves. In addition, the part of the brain that coordinates movement is unusually small and underdeveloped (cerebellar hypoplasia). Other parts of the brain are also often underdeveloped in LCH, including the hippocampus, which plays a role in learning and memory, and the part of the brain that is connected to the spinal cord (the brainstem).  Individuals with LCH have moderate to severe intellectual disability and delayed development. They have few or no communication skills, extremely poor muscle tone (hypotonia), problems with coordination and balance (ataxia), and difficulty sitting or standing without support. Most affected children experience recurrent seizures (epilepsy) that begin within the first months of life. Some affected individuals have nearsightedness (myopia), involuntary eye movements (nystagmus), or puffiness or swelling caused by a buildup of fluids in the body's tissues (lymphedema)."
1221,"What are the symptoms of Pachygyria, frontotemporal ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Pachygyria, frontotemporal? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pachygyria, frontotemporal. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Esotropia - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability, moderate - Pachygyria - Seizures - Telecanthus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1222,How many people are affected by Parkinson disease ?,"Parkinson disease affects more than 1 million people in North America and more than 4 million people worldwide. In the United States, Parkinson disease occurs in approximately 13 per 100,000 people, and about 60,000 new cases are identified each year.  The late-onset form is the most common type of Parkinson disease, and the risk of developing this condition increases with age. Because more people are living longer, the number of people with this disease is expected to increase in coming decades."
1223,What are the treatments for Inguinal Hernia ?,"Repair of an inguinal hernia via surgery is the only treatment for inguinal hernias and can prevent incarceration and strangulation. Health care providers recommend surgery for most people with inguinal hernias and especially for people with hernias that cause symptoms. Research suggests that men with hernias that cause few or no symptoms may be able to safely delay surgery until their symptoms increase.3,6 Men who delay surgery should watch for symptoms and see a health care provider regularly. Health care providers usually recommend surgery for infants and children to prevent incarceration.1 Emergent, or immediate, surgery is necessary for incarcerated or strangulated hernias.
                
A general surgeona doctor who specializes in abdominal surgeryperforms hernia surgery at a hospital or surgery center, usually on an outpatient basis. Recovery time varies depending on the size of the hernia, the technique used, and the age and health of the person.
                
Hernia surgery is also called herniorrhaphy. The two main types of surgery for hernias are
                
- Open hernia repair. During an open hernia repair, a health care provider usually gives a patient local anesthesia in the abdomen with sedation; however, some patients may have      - sedation with a spinal block, in which a health care provider injects anesthetics around the nerves in the spine, making the body numb from the waist down    - general anesthesia
                
- The surgeon makes an incision in the groin, moves the hernia back into the abdomen, and reinforces the abdominal wall with stitches. Usually the surgeon also reinforces the weak area with a synthetic mesh or screen to provide additional support.
                
- Laparoscopic hernia repair. A surgeon performs laparoscopic hernia repair with the patient under general anesthesia. The surgeon makes several small, half-inch incisions in the lower abdomen and inserts a laparoscopea thin tube with a tiny video camera attached. The camera sends a magnified image from inside the body to a video monitor, giving the surgeon a close-up view of the hernia and surrounding tissue. While watching the monitor, the surgeon repairs the hernia using synthetic mesh or screen.
                
People who undergo laparoscopic hernia repair generally experience a shorter recovery time than those who have an open hernia repair. However, the surgeon may determine that laparoscopy is not the best option if the hernia is large or if the person has had previous pelvic surgery.
                
Most adults experience discomfort and require pain medication after either an open hernia repair or a laparoscopic hernia repair. Intense activity and heavy lifting are restricted for several weeks. The surgeon will discuss when a person may safely return to work. Infants and children also experience some discomfort; however, they usually resume normal activities after several days.
                
Surgery to repair an inguinal hernia is quite safe, and complications are uncommon. People should contact their health care provider if any of the following symptoms appear:
                
- redness around or drainage from the incision  - fever  - bleeding from the incision  - pain that is not relieved by medication or pain that suddenly worsens
                
Possible long-term complications include
                
- long-lasting pain in the groin  - recurrence of the hernia, requiring a second surgery  - damage to nerves near the hernia"
1224,What is (are) Branchiootorenal syndrome ?,"Branchiootorenal syndrome is characterized by birth defects or anomalies of tissues in the neck, malformations of the external ear, hearing loss, and kidney malformations. Symptom and symptom severity can vary greatly from person to person. It can be caused by mutations in the EYA1, SIX1, or SIX5 genes. It is passed through families in an autosomal dominant fashion. Treatment may include surgery to remove the anomalies of the neck (i.e., branchial fistulae or cysts), careful assessment and management of hearing loss, and follow-up by a kidney specialist (nephrologist). In some cases dialysis or kidney transplant may be required."
1225,How to diagnose Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 ?,"How is pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 diagnosed? Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 is usually diagnosed in adults. Unexplained hyperkalemia may be the presenting symptom and Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 may be diagnosed after common causes of hyperkalemia have been ruled out. Mildly elevated levels of chloride ion in the blood, metabolic acidosis, and suppressed plasma renin activity are variably associated with this condition as well. Aldosterone levels may vary from high to low."
1226,What is (are) Myositis ?,"Myositis means inflammation of the muscles that you use to move your body. An injury, infection, or autoimmune disease can cause it. Two specific kinds are polymyositis and dermatomyositis. Polymyositis causes muscle weakness, usually in the muscles closest to the trunk of your body. Dermatomyositis causes muscle weakness, plus a skin rash.    Other symptoms of myositis may include       - Fatigue after walking or standing    - Tripping or falling    - Trouble swallowing or breathing       Doctors may use a physical exam, lab tests, imaging tests and a muscle biopsy to diagnose myositis. There is no cure for these diseases, but you can treat the symptoms. Polymyositis and dermatomyositis are first treated with high doses of a corticosteroid. Other options include medications, physical therapy, exercise, heat therapy, assistive devices, and rest.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
1227,What is (are) Zika Virus ?,"Zika is a virus that is spread by mosquitoes. A pregnant mother can pass it to her baby during pregnancy or around the time of birth. A man can spread it to his partner during sexual contact. There have also been reports that the virus has spread through blood transfusions. There have been outbreaks of Zika virus in Africa, Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, parts of the Caribbean, and Central and South America.    Most people who get the virus do not get sick. One in five people do get symptoms, which can include a fever, rash, joint pain, and conjunctivitis (pinkeye). Symptoms are usually mild, and start 2 to 7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito.    A blood test can tell whether you have the infection. There are no vaccines or medicines to treat it. Drinking lots of fluids, resting, and taking acetaminophen might help.    Zika can cause microcephaly (a serious birth defect of the brain) and other problems in babies whose mothers were infected while pregnant. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that pregnant women do not travel to areas where there is a Zika virus outbreak. If you do decide to travel, first talk to your doctor. You should also be careful to prevent mosquito bites:       - Use insect repellent    - Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs, and feet    - Stay in places that have air conditioning or that use window and door screens       Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
1228,What are the treatments for factor XIII deficiency ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of factor XIII deficiency:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Factor xiii, a subunit, deficiency of  - Genetic Testing Registry: Factor xiii, b subunit, deficiency of   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1229,What are the symptoms of Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ghosal hematodiaphyseal dysplasia syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal cortical bone morphology 90% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of immune system physiology 90% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 90% Abnormality of the femur 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the tibia 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% Hyperostosis cranialis interna 5% Leukopenia 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bone marrow hypocellularity - Diaphyseal dysplasia - Increased bone mineral density - Myelofibrosis - Phenotypic variability - Refractory anemia - Thrombocytopenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1230,What are the treatments for X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of X-linked adrenal hypoplasia congenita:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: X-Linked Adrenal Hypoplasia Congenita  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital adrenal hypoplasia, X-linked  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Adrenal Glands  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hypogonadotropic Hypogonadism   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1231,How to diagnose Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 ?,"How is Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 diagnosed? The diagnosis of Schwartz Jampel syndrome type 1 (SJS1) is suspected based on clinical findings including characteristic facial features, skeletal features, and muscle stiffness (myotonia). Studies that may be useful in diagnosing  SJS1 include: blood tests (which may show elevated serum creatine kinase or adolase); imaging studies; muscle biopsy; and electromyography (EMG)/nerve conduction studies. Genetic testing of the HSPG2 gene may additionally be helpful to confirm the diagnosis."
1232,What is (are) Nuclear Gene-Encoded Leigh Syndrome ?,"Nuclear gene-encoded Leigh syndrome is a progressive neurological disease. It usually first becomes apparent in infancy with developmental delay or regression. Rarely, the disease begins in adolescence or adulthood. Symptoms progress to include generalized weakness, lack of muscle tone, spasticity, movement disorders, cerebellar ataxia, and peripheral neuropathy. Other signs and symptoms may include an increase in the heart muscle size (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy); excessive body hair (hypertrichosis); anemia; kidney or liver problems; and lung or heart failure. Nuclear gene-encoded Leigh syndrome (and Leigh-like syndrome, a term used for cases with similar features but that do not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for Leigh syndrome) may be caused by mutations in any of several genes and can be inherited in an autosomal recessive or X-linked manner. While treatment for some cases of Leigh-like syndrome may be available, management is generally supportive and focuses on the symptoms present."
1233,How to diagnose Colon Cancer ?,"Tests that examine the colon and rectum are used to detect (find) and diagnose colon cancer. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Digital rectal exam : An exam of the rectum. The doctor or nurse inserts a lubricated, gloved finger into the rectum to feel for lumps or anything else that seems unusual.    -   Fecal occult blood test (FOBT): A test to check stool (solid waste) for blood that can only be seen with a microscope. A small sample of stool is placed on a special card or in a special container and returned to the doctor or laboratory for testing. Blood in the stool may be a sign of polyps, cancer, or other conditions. There are two types of FOBTs:               -  Guaiac FOBT : The sample of stool on the special card is tested with a chemical. If there is blood in the stool, the special card changes color.      -  Immunochemical FOBT : A liquid is added to the stool sample. This mixture is injected into a machine that contains antibodies that can detect blood in the stool. If there is blood in the stool, a line appears in a window in the machine. This test is also called fecal immunochemical test or FIT.             -   Barium enema : A series of x-rays of the lower gastrointestinal tract. A liquid that contains barium (a silver-white metallic compound) is put into the rectum. The barium coats the lower gastrointestinal tract and x-rays are taken. This procedure is also called a lower GI series.    -   Sigmoidoscopy : A procedure to look inside the rectum and sigmoid (lower) colon for polyps (small areas of bulging tissue), other abnormal areas, or cancer. A sigmoidoscope is inserted through the rectum into the sigmoid colon. A sigmoidoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove polyps or tissue samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of cancer.    -   Colonoscopy : A procedure to look inside the rectum and colon for polyps, abnormal areas, or cancer. A colonoscope is inserted through the rectum into the colon. A colonoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. It may also have a tool to remove polyps or tissue samples, which are checked under a microscope for signs of cancer.    -   Virtual colonoscopy : A procedure that uses a series of x-rays called computed tomography to make a series of pictures of the colon. A computer puts the pictures together to create detailed images that may show polyps and anything else that seems unusual on the inside surface of the colon. This test is also called colonography or CT colonography.     -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer."
1234,Is Benign schwannoma inherited ?,"Are schwannomas inherited? Most schwannomas are not inherited. The vast majority of schwannomas occur by chance (sporadically) and as a single tumor. In these cases, people typically do not have affected family members. Around 5-10% of people develop multiple schwannomas. In these cases, the schwannomas may be due to an inherited condition which can be passed from parent to child. For example, neurofibromatosis type 2 and schwannomatosis are two conditions known to cause multiple schwannomas. Both of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that to be affected, a person only needs a change (mutation) in one copy of the responsible gene in each cell. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from an affected parent. Other cases may result from new (de novo) mutations in the gene. These cases occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. A person with neurofibromatosis type 2 or schwannomatosis has a 50% chance with each pregnancy of passing along the altered gene to his or her child."
1235,What is (are) Multi-Infarct Dementia ?,"Multi-infarct dementia (MID) is a common cause of memory loss in the elderly. MID is caused by multiple strokes (disruption of blood flow to the brain). Disruption of blood flow leads to damaged brain tissue. Some of these strokes may occur without noticeable clinical symptoms. Doctors refer to these as silent strokes. An individual having asilent stroke may not even know it is happening, but over time, as more areas of the brain are damaged and more small blood vessels are blocked, the symptoms of MID begin to appear. MID can be diagnosed by an MRI or CT of the brain, along with a neurological examination. Symptoms include confusion or problems with short-term memory; wandering, or getting lost in familiar places; walking with rapid, shuffling steps; losing bladder or bowel control; laughing or crying inappropriately; having difficulty following instructions; and having problems counting money and making monetary transactions. MID, which typically begins between the ages of 60 and 75, affects men more often than women. Because the symptoms of MID are so similar to Alzheimers disease, it can be difficult for a doctor to make a firm diagnosis. Since the diseases often occur together, making a single diagnosis of one or the other is even more problematic."
1236,What is (are) Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia ?,"Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia (SMECE) is a type of cancer that most commonly affects the thyroid gland, but has been reported in the salivary gland as well. Signs and symptoms include a painless neck mass. Many people with mucoepidermoid carcinomas are women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The prevalence of SMECE is unknown, but only around 50 cases have been described in the medical literature. SMECE most commonly presents between 40 to 75 years of age. SMECE was initially considered a ""low-grade"" tumor, however cases of SMECE spreading locally to lymph nodes and to distant organs have been described. While data is limited, with treatment it appears that prognosis is typically good."
1237,Is systemic scleroderma inherited ?,"Most cases of systemic scleroderma are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. However, some people with systemic scleroderma have close relatives with other autoimmune disorders.  A small percentage of all cases of systemic scleroderma have been reported to run in families; however, the condition does not have a clear pattern of inheritance. Multiple genetic and environmental factors likely play a part in determining the risk of developing this condition. As a result, inheriting a genetic variation linked with systemic scleroderma does not mean that a person will develop the condition."
1238,What is (are) Central serous chorioretinopathy ?,"Central serous chorioretinopathy is a disease that causes fluid to build up under the retina, the back part of the inner eye that sends sight information to the brain. The fluid leaks from the choroid (the blood vessel layer under the retina). The cause of this condition is unknown but stress can be a risk factor. Signs and symptoms include dim and blurred blind spot in the center of vision, distortion of straight lines and seeing objects as smaller or farther away. Many cases of central serous chorioretinopathy improve without treatment after 1-2 months. Laser treatment may be an option for other individuals."
1239,What are the genetic changes related to Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome/dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis ?,"NFJS/DPR results from mutations in the KRT14 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called keratin 14. Keratins are tough, fibrous proteins that provide strength and resiliency to the outer layer of the skin (the epidermis). Researchers believe that keratin 14 may also play a role in the formation of sweat glands and the development of dermatoglyphs.  The KRT14 gene mutations that cause NFJS/DPR most likely reduce the amount of functional keratin 14 that is produced in cells. A shortage of this protein makes cells in the epidermis more likely to self-destruct (undergo apoptosis). The resulting loss of these cells alters the normal development and structure of ectodermal tissues, which likely underlies most of the skin and nail problems characteristic of NFJS/DPR. However, it is unclear how a shortage of keratin 14 is related to changes in skin pigmentation."
1240,How many people are affected by Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome ?,Chanarin-Dorfman syndrome is a rare condition; its incidence is unknown.
1241,What are the treatments for Porphyria ?,"Treatment for porphyria depends on the type of porphyria the person has and the severity of the symptoms.
                
Acute Porphyrias
                
A health care provider treats acute porphyrias with heme or glucose loading to decrease the livers production of porphyrins and porphyrin precursors. A patient receives heme intravenously once a day for 4 days. Glucose loading involves giving a patient a glucose solution by mouth or intravenously. Heme is usually more effective and is the treatment of choice unless symptoms are mild. In rare instances, if symptoms are severe, a health care provider will recommend liver transplantation to treat acute porphyria. In liver transplantation, a surgeon removes a diseased or an injured liver and replaces it with a healthy, whole liver or a segment of a liver from another person, called a donor. A patient has liver transplantation surgery in a hospital under general anesthesia. Liver transplantation can cure liver failure. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Liver Transplantation.
                
Cutaneous Porphyrias
                
The most important step a person can take to treat a cutaneous porphyria is to avoid sunlight as much as possible. Other cutaneous porphyrias are treated as follows:
                
- Porphyria cutanea tarda. A health care provider treats porphyria cutanea tarda by removing factors that tend to activate the disease and by performing repeated therapeutic phlebotomies to reduce iron in the liver. Therapeutic phlebotomy is the removal of about a pint of blood from a vein in the arm. A technician performs the procedure at a blood donation center, such as a hospital, clinic, or bloodmobile. A patient does not require anesthesia. Another treatment approach is low-dose hydroxychloroquine tablets to reduce porphyrins in the liver.  - Erythropoietic protoporphyria. People with erythropoietic protoporphyria may be given beta-carotene or cysteine to improve sunlight tolerance, though these medications do not lower porphyrin levels. Experts recommend hepatitis A and B vaccines and avoiding alcohol to prevent protoporphyric liver failure. A health care provider may use liver transplantation or a combination of medications to treat people who develop liver failure. Unfortunately, liver transplantation does not correct the primary defect, which is the continuous overproduction of protoporphyria by bone marrow. Successful bone marrow transplantations may successfully cure erythropoietic protoporphyria. A health care provider only considers bone marrow transplantation if the disease is severe and leading to secondary liver disease.  - Congenital erythropoietic porphyria and hepatoerythropoietic porphyria. People with congenital erythropoietic porphyria or hepatoerythropoietic porphyria may need surgery to remove the spleen or blood transfusions to treat anemia. A surgeon removes the spleen in a hospital, and a patient receives general anesthesia. With a blood transfusion, a patient receives blood through an intravenous (IV) line inserted into a vein. A technician performs the procedure at a blood donation center, and a patient does not need anesthesia.
                
Secondary Porphyrinurias
                
Conditions called secondary porphyrinurias, such as disorders of the liver and bone marrow, as well as a number of drugs, chemicals, and toxins are often mistaken for porphyria because they lead to mild or moderate increases in porphyrin levels in the urine. Only highnot mild or moderatelevels of porphyrin or porphyrin precursors lead to a diagnosis of porphyria."
1242,Is myoclonus-dystonia inherited ?,"Myoclonus-dystonia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  People normally inherit one copy of each gene from their mother and one copy from their father. For most genes, both copies are active, or ""turned on,"" in all cells. For a small subset of genes, however, only one of the two copies is active. For some of these genes, only the copy inherited from a person's father (the paternal copy) is active, while for other genes, only the copy inherited from a person's mother (the maternal copy) is active. These differences in gene activation based on the gene's parent of origin are caused by a phenomenon called genomic imprinting.  Only the paternal copy of the SGCE gene is active. Myoclonus-dystonia occurs when mutations affect the paternal copy of the SGCE gene. Mutations in the maternal copy of the gene typically do not cause any health problems."
1243,What are the genetic changes related to spondyloenchondrodysplasia with immune dysregulation ?,"Mutations in the ACP5 gene cause SPENCDI. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase type 5 (TRAP). The TRAP enzyme primarily regulates the activity of a protein called osteopontin, which is produced in bone cells called osteoclasts and in immune cells. Osteopontin performs a variety of functions in these cells.  Osteoclasts are specialized cells that break down and remove (resorb) bone tissue that is no longer needed. These cells are involved in bone remodeling, which is a normal process that replaces old bone tissue with new bone. During bone remodeling, osteopontin is turned on (activated), allowing osteoclasts to attach (bind) to bones. When the breakdown of bone is complete, TRAP turns off (inactivates) osteopontin, causing the osteoclasts to release themselves from bone.  In immune system cells, osteopontin helps fight infection by promoting inflammation, regulating immune cell activity, and turning on various immune system cells that are necessary to fight off foreign invaders. As in bone cells, the TRAP enzyme inactivates osteopontin in immune cells when it is no longer needed.  The ACP5 gene mutations that cause SPENCDI impair or eliminate TRAP's ability to inactivate osteopontin. As a result, osteopontin is abnormally active, prolonging bone breakdown by osteoclasts and triggering abnormal inflammation and immune responses by immune cells. In people with SPENCDI, increased bone remodeling contributes to the skeletal abnormalities, including irregularly shaped bones and short stature. An overactive immune system leads to increased susceptibility to autoimmune disorders and impairs the body's normal immune response to harmful invaders, resulting in frequent infections. The mechanism that leads to the other features of SPENCDI, including movement disorders and intellectual disability, is currently unknown."
1244,What are the symptoms of Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Marinesco-Sjogren syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the genital system 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Cataract 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Incoordination 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Myopathy 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Short stature 90% Strabismus 90% Abnormality of movement 50% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Hypertonia 50% Muscle weakness 50% Nystagmus 50% Pectus carinatum 50% Scoliosis 50% Skeletal muscle atrophy 50% Talipes 50% Microcephaly 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Peripheral neuropathy 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Centrally nucleated skeletal muscle fibers - Cerebellar cortical atrophy - Congenital cataract - Coxa valga - Cubitus valgus - Dysarthria - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Failure to thrive - Flexion contracture - Gait ataxia - Hypergonadotropic hypogonadism - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Kyphosis - Limb ataxia - Pes planus - Progressive muscle weakness - Short metacarpal - Short metatarsal - Spasticity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1245,"What are the symptoms of Hypercholesterolemia, autosomal dominant ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Hypercholesterolemia, autosomal dominant? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hypercholesterolemia, autosomal dominant. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Corneal arcus - Coronary artery disease - Hypercholesterolemia - Xanthelasma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1246,What is (are) Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease ?,"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a rare, degenerative,fatal brain disorder. Typically, onset of symptoms occurs at about age 60. There are three major categories of CJD: sporadic (the most common form, in which people do not have any risk factors for the disease); hereditary (in which the person has a family member with the disease and tests positive for a genetic mutation), and acquired (in which the disease is transmitted by exposure to brain and nervous system tissue, usually through certain medical procedures. A form called variant CJD can be acquired by eating meat from cattle affected by a disease similar to CJD, called bovine spongiform encephalopathy (commonly called mad cow disease). Symptoms of CJD include problems with muscular coordination, personality changes including progressive and severe mental impairment, impaired vision that may lead to blindness, and involuntary muscle jerks called myoclonus. People eventually lose the ability to move and speak and enter a coma. Tests that help in the diagnosis of CJD include electroencephalography (which measures brain waves), detection of certain proteins in the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord, and magnetic resonance imaging.. The first concern is to rule out treatable forms of dementia such as encephalitis or chronic meningitis. The only way to confirm a diagnosis of CJD is by brain biopsy or autopsy. In a brain biopsy, a neurosurgeon removes a small piece of tissue from the person's brain so that it can be examined by a neurologist. Because a correct diagnosis of CJD does not help the individual, a brain biopsy is discouraged unless it is need to rule out a treatable disorder. ."
1247,What to do for What I need to know about Lactose Intolerance ?,"Talk with your doctor about your dietary plan. A dietary plan can help you manage the symptoms of lactose intolerance and get enough nutrients. If you have a child with lactose intolerance, follow the diet plan that your childs doctor recommends.
                
Milk and milk products. You may be able to have milk and milk products without symptoms if you
                
- drink small amounts of milkhalf a cup or lessat a time  - drink small amounts of milk with meals, such as having milk with cereal or having cheese with crackers  - add small amounts of milk and milk products to your diet a little at a time and see how you feel  - eat milk products that are easier for people with lactose intolerance to break down:      - yogurt    - hard cheeses such as cheddar and Swiss
                

                
Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products. You can find lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products at the grocery store. These products are just as healthy for you as regular milk and milk products.
                
Lactase products. You can use lactase tablets and drops when you have milk and milk products. The lactase enzyme breaks down the lactose in food. Using lactase tablets or drops can help you prevent symptoms of lactose intolerance. Check with your doctor before using these products. Some people, such as young children and pregnant and breastfeeding women, may not be able to use these products.
                

                

                
Calcium and Vitamin D   If you are lactose intolerant, make sure you get enough calcium each day. Milk and milk products are the most common sources of calcium. Other foods that contain calcium include   - fish with soft bones, such as canned salmon or sardines   - broccoli and other leafy green vegetables   - oranges   - almonds, Brazil nuts, and dried beans   - tofu   - products with the label showing added calcium, such as cereals, fruit juices, and soy milk    Vitamin D helps the body absorb and use calcium. Be sure to eat foods that contain vitamin D, such as eggs, liver, and certain kinds of fish, such as salmon. Also, being outside in the sunlight helps your body make vitamin D. Some companies add vitamin D to milk and milk products. If you are able to drink small amounts of milk or eat yogurt, choose those that have vitamin D added.   Talk with your doctor about how to get enough nutrientsincluding calcium and vitamin Din your diet or your childs diet. Ask if you should also take a supplement to get enough calcium and vitamin D.   For safety reasons, talk with your doctor before using dietary supplements or any other nonmainstream medicine together with or in place of the treatment your doctor prescribes. Read more at www.ods.od.nih.gov and www.nccam.nih.gov."
1248,How many people are affected by Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Children ?,"Limited information is available about the number of children with IBS. Older studies have reported prevalence rates for recurrent abdominal pain in children of 10 to 20 percent.1 However, these studies did not differentiate IBS from functional abdominal pain, indigestion, and abdominal migraine. One study of children in North America found that 14 percent of high school students and 6 percent of middle school students have IBS. The study also found that IBS affects boys and girls equally.2"
1249,What are the symptoms of Geniospasm ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Geniospasm? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Geniospasm. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Chin myoclonus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1250,What is (are) Polycystic ovarian syndrome ?,"Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a health problem that can affect a woman's menstrual cycle, ability to have children, hormones, heart, blood vessels, and appearance. Women with this condition typically have high levels of  hormones called androgens, missed or irregular periods, and many small cysts in their ovaries. The cause of PCOS is unknown, but probably involves a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Treatment for PCOS may involve birth control pills and medications for diabetes and infertility. Medicines called anti-androgens are also used to speed the growth of hair and clear acne."
1251,What are the symptoms of Spinal muscular atrophy type 3 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinal muscular atrophy type 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinal muscular atrophy type 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Areflexia of lower limbs - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Degeneration of anterior horn cells - EMG abnormality - Hand tremor - Hyporeflexia - Limb fasciculations - Muscle cramps - Muscle weakness - Progressive - Spinal muscular atrophy - Tongue fasciculations - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1252,What is (are) Complex regional pain syndrome ?,"Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a chronic pain condition that mainly affects the arms, legs, hands, and feet, but may involve the entire body. CRPS symptoms often begin after an injury. The main feature of CRPS is continuous, intense pain that is out of proportion to the severity of the injury. The pain gets worse over time and often spreads throughout the entire affected area. Other symptoms may include color and temperature changes of the skin over the affected area; skin sensitivity; sweating; and swelling. The underlying cause of CRPS is often not known. Two classifications of CRPS have been recognized based on causalgia. Type I (also known as reflex sympathetic dystrophy), in which there is no evidence of peripheral nerve injury and Type II, in which peripheral nerve injury is present. Treatment aims to relieve pain and often includes different interventions such as topical or oral medications; physical therapy; and/or a sympathetic nerve block."
1253,What is (are) Varicose Veins ?,"Varicose veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the skin. They usually occur in the legs, but also can form in other parts of the body. Hemorrhoids are a type of varicose vein.    Your veins have one-way valves that help keep blood flowing toward your heart. If the valves are weak or damaged, blood can back up and pool in your veins. This causes the veins to swell, which can lead to varicose veins.    Varicose veins are very common. You are more at risk if you are older, a female, obese, don't exercise or have a family history. They can also be more common in pregnancy.    Doctors often diagnose varicose veins from a physical exam. Sometimes you may need additional tests.    Exercising, losing weight, elevating your legs when resting, and not crossing them when sitting can help keep varicose veins from getting worse. Wearing loose clothing and avoiding long periods of standing can also help. If varicose veins are painful or you don't like the way they look, your doctor may recommend procedures to remove them.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
1254,What are the treatments for capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of CM-AVM:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: RASA1-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Capillary malformation-arteriovenous malformation   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1255,What are the symptoms of Yorifuji Okuno syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Yorifuji Okuno syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Yorifuji Okuno syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Biliary atresia 5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 5% Inguinal hernia 5% Intestinal malrotation 5% Microcephaly 5% Microcolon 5% Seizures 5% Single umbilical artery 5% Umbilical hernia 5% Ureteral duplication 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Diabetes mellitus - Failure to thrive - Glycosuria - Hyperglycemia - Interrupted aortic arch - Intrauterine growth retardation - Pancreatic hypoplasia - Patent ductus arteriosus - Patent foramen ovale - Perimembranous ventricular septal defect - Pulmonic stenosis - Tetralogy of Fallot - Transposition of the great arteries - Truncus arteriosus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1256,What is (are) Alexander disease ?,"Alexander disease is a rare disorder of the nervous system. It is one of a group of disorders, called leukodystrophies, that involve the destruction of myelin. Myelin is the fatty covering that insulates nerve fibers and promotes the rapid transmission of nerve impulses. If myelin is not properly maintained, the transmission of nerve impulses could be disrupted. As myelin deteriorates in leukodystrophies such as Alexander disease, nervous system functions are impaired.  Most cases of Alexander disease begin before age 2 and are described as the infantile form. Signs and symptoms of the infantile form typically include an enlarged brain and head size (megalencephaly), seizures, stiffness in the arms and/or legs (spasticity), intellectual disability, and developmental delay. Less frequently, onset occurs later in childhood (the juvenile form) or in adulthood. Common problems in juvenile and adult forms of Alexander disease include speech abnormalities, swallowing difficulties, seizures, and poor coordination (ataxia). Rarely, a neonatal form of Alexander disease occurs within the first month of life and is associated with severe intellectual disability and developmental delay, a buildup of fluid in the brain (hydrocephalus), and seizures.  Alexander disease is also characterized by abnormal protein deposits known as Rosenthal fibers. These deposits are found in specialized cells called astroglial cells, which support and nourish other cells in the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system)."
1257,What is (are) Kidney Dysplasia ?,"The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the two kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, which is composed of wastes and extra fluid. Children produce less urine than adultsthe amount they produce depends on their age. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through the two ureters, one on each side of the bladder. The bladder stores urine. The muscles of the bladder wall remain relaxed while the bladder fills with urine. As the bladder fills to capacity, signals sent to the brain tell a person to find a toilet soon. When the bladder empties, urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra, located at the bottom of the bladder.
                
The kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra are parts of the urinary tract. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, the kidneys and the urinary tract."
1258,What are the symptoms of Mosaic trisomy 8 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Mosaic trisomy 8? The facial features are usually mild and can include elongation of the skull (scaphocephaly), prominent forehead, widely-spaced eyes, deeply set eyes, broad upturned nose, micrognathia, and ear abnormalities. Additional features can include: agenesis of the corpus callosum, highly arched or cleft palate, short and large neck, high stature, elongated thin trunk, and narrow shoulders and pelvis. Kidney and cardiac abnormalities are frequent. Camptodactyly, stiff joints, absent malformed kneecap, vertebral malformations such as scoliosis, as well as eye abnormalities also commonly observed. Most affected individuals have moderate intellectual disabilities (IQ between 50 and 75), with some people having a normal intelligence. There is no correlation between the percentage of trisomic cells and the severity of the intellectual deficit. Mosaic trisomy 8 also seems to predispose to Wilms tumors, myelodysplasias, and myeloid leukemia. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mosaic trisomy 8. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of chromosome segregation 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 50% Abnormality of the antihelix 50% Abnormality of the ribs 50% Abnormality of the shoulder 50% Anteverted nares 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Deep palmar crease 50% Deep plantar creases 50% Deeply set eye 50% Dolichocephaly 50% Frontal bossing 50% Hypertelorism 50% Large earlobe 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Long face 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Narrow chest 50% Opacification of the corneal stroma 50% Patellar aplasia 50% Scoliosis 50% Strabismus 50% Vertebral segmentation defect 50% Vesicoureteral reflux 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Deviation of finger 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hypopigmented skin patches 7.5% Irregular hyperpigmentation 7.5% Short neck 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Tall stature 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1259,"How many people are affected by hereditary angiopathy with nephropathy, aneurysms, and muscle cramps syndrome ?","HANAC syndrome is a rare condition, although the exact prevalence is unknown. At least six affected families have been described in the scientific literature."
1260,What to do for Foodborne Illnesses ?,"- Foodborne illnesses are infections or irritations of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract caused by food or beverages that contain harmful bacteria, parasites, viruses, or chemicals.  - Anyone can get a foodborne illness. However, some people are more likely to develop foodborne illnesses than others, including infants and children, pregnant women and their fetuses, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.  - Symptoms of foodborne illnesses depend on the cause. Common symptoms of many foodborne illnesses include vomiting, diarrhea or bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, and chills.  - Foodborne illnesses may lead to dehydration, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), and other complications. Acute foodborne illnesses may also lead to chronicor long lastinghealth problems.  - The only treatment needed for most foodborne illnesses is replacing lost fluids and electrolytes to prevent dehydration.  - Foodborne illnesses can be prevented by properly storing, cooking, cleaning, and handling foods."
1261,What are the genetic changes related to neuroblastoma ?,"Neuroblastoma and other cancers occur when a buildup of genetic mutations in critical genesthose that control cell growth and division (proliferation) or maturation (differentiation)allow cells to grow and divide uncontrollably to form a tumor. In most cases, these genetic changes are acquired during a person's lifetime and are called somatic mutations. Somatic mutations are present only in certain cells and are not inherited. When neuroblastoma is associated with somatic mutations, it is called sporadic neuroblastoma. It is thought that somatic mutations in at least two genes are required to cause sporadic neuroblastoma. Less commonly, gene mutations that increase the risk of developing cancer can be inherited from a parent. When the mutation associated with neuroblastoma is inherited, the condition is called familial neuroblastoma. Mutations in the ALK and PHOX2B genes have been shown to increase the risk of developing sporadic and familial neuroblastoma. It is likely that there are other genes involved in the formation of neuroblastoma.  Several mutations in the ALK gene are involved in the development of sporadic and familial neuroblastoma. The ALK gene provides instructions for making a protein called anaplastic lymphoma kinase. Although the specific function of this protein is unknown, it appears to play an important role in cell proliferation. Mutations in the ALK gene result in an abnormal version of anaplastic lymphoma kinase that is constantly turned on (constitutively activated). Constitutively active anaplastic lymphoma kinase may induce abnormal proliferation of immature nerve cells and lead to neuroblastoma.  Several mutations in the PHOX2B gene have been identified in sporadic and familial neuroblastoma. The PHOX2B gene is important for the formation and differentiation of nerve cells. Mutations in this gene are believed to interfere with the PHOX2B protein's role in promoting nerve cell differentiation. This disruption of differentiation results in an excess of immature nerve cells and leads to neuroblastoma.  Deletion of certain regions of chromosome 1 and chromosome 11 are associated with neuroblastoma. Researchers believe the deleted regions in these chromosomes could contain a gene that keeps cells from growing and dividing too quickly or in an uncontrolled way, called a tumor suppressor gene. When a tumor suppressor gene is deleted, cancer can occur. The KIF1B gene is a tumor suppressor gene located in the deleted region of chromosome 1, and mutations in this gene have been identified in some people with familial neuroblastoma, indicating it is involved in neuroblastoma development or progression. There are several other possible tumor suppressor genes in the deleted region of chromosome 1. No tumor suppressor genes have been identified in the deleted region of chromosome 11.  Another genetic change found in neuroblastoma is associated with the severity of the disease but not thought to cause it. About 25 percent of people with neuroblastoma have extra copies of the MYCN gene, a phenomenon called gene amplification. It is unknown how amplification of this gene contributes to the aggressive nature of neuroblastoma."
1262,What are the treatments for focal dermal hypoplasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of focal dermal hypoplasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Focal Dermal Hypoplasia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Focal dermal hypoplasia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Ectodermal dysplasia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Omphalocele   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1263,What are the genetic changes related to Leydig cell hypoplasia ?,"Mutations in the LHCGR gene cause Leydig cell hypoplasia. The LHCGR gene provides instructions for making a protein called the luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor. Receptor proteins have specific sites into which certain other proteins, called ligands, fit like keys into locks. Together, ligands and their receptors trigger signals that affect cell development and function.  The protein produced from the LHCGR gene acts as a receptor for two ligands: luteinizing hormone and a similar hormone called chorionic gonadotropin. The receptor allows the body to respond appropriately to these hormones. In males, chorionic gonadotropin stimulates the development of cells in the testes called Leydig cells, and luteinizing hormone triggers these cells to produce androgens. Androgens, including testosterone, are the hormones that control male sexual development and reproduction. In females, luteinizing hormone triggers the release of egg cells from the ovary (ovulation). Chorionic gonadotropin is produced during pregnancy and helps maintain conditions necessary for the pregnancy to continue.  The LHCGR gene mutations that cause Leydig cell hypoplasia disrupt luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor function, impeding the body's ability to react to these hormones. In males, the mutations result in poorly developed or absent Leydig cells and impaired production of testosterone. A lack of testosterone interferes with the development of male reproductive organs before birth and the changes that appear at puberty. Mutations that prevent the production of any functional receptor protein cause the more severe features of Leydig cell hypoplasia, and mutations that allow some receptor protein function cause milder signs and symptoms."
1264,What are the symptoms of Shapiro syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Shapiro syndrome? Shapiro syndrome generally consists of three findings: spontaneous periodic hypothermia, excessive sweating, and agenesis of the corpus callosum. However, there has been a documented case of a 4-year-old girl with Shapiro syndrome who did not have agenesis of the corpus callosum. Additionally, there have been some patients who also produce excessive amounts of urine  (polyuria) and have experienced excessive thirst (polydipsia).  Given that some people with Shapiro syndrome do not respond well to the various treatment options available for the condition, the symptoms may worsen with time for some people.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Shapiro syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gait disturbance 90% Hyperhidrosis 90% Hypothermia 90% Incoordination 90% Nausea and vomiting 90% Pallor 90% Arrhythmia 50% Reduced consciousness/confusion 50% Seizures 50% Sleep disturbance 50% Tremor 50% Abnormal pattern of respiration 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Diarrhea 7.5% Skin rash 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1265,What are the genetic changes related to vitiligo ?,"Variations in over 30 genes, occurring in different combinations, have been associated with an increased risk of developing vitiligo. Two of these genes are NLRP1 and PTPN22. The NLRP1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the immune system, helping to regulate the process of inflammation. Inflammation occurs when the immune system sends signaling molecules and white blood cells to a site of injury or disease to fight microbial invaders and facilitate tissue repair. The body then stops (inhibits) the inflammatory response to prevent damage to its own cells and tissues.  The PTPN22 gene provides instructions for making a protein involved in signaling that helps control the activity of immune system cells called T cells. T cells identify foreign substances and defend the body against infection.  The variations in the NLRP1 and PTPN22 genes that are associated with an increased risk of developing vitiligo likely affect the activity of the NLRP1 and PTPN22 proteins, making it more difficult for the body to control inflammation and prevent the immune system from attacking its own tissues.  Studies indicate that variations in a number of other genes also affect the risk of vitiligo. Many of these genes are also involved in immune system function or melanocyte biology, and variations in each likely make only a small contribution to vitiligo risk. Some of the gene changes associated with an increased risk of vitiligo have also been associated with an increased risk of other autoimmune conditions.  It is unclear what specific circumstances trigger the immune system to attack melanocytes in the skin. Research suggests that the immune system of affected individuals may react abnormally to melanocytes that are stressed by factors such as chemicals or ultraviolet radiation. In addition, the melanocytes of people with vitiligo may be more susceptible to stress than those of the general population and therefore may be more likely to be attacked by the immune system. The condition probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, most of which have not been identified."
1266,How many people are affected by progressive pseudorheumatoid dysplasia ?,"PPRD has been estimated to occur in approximately 1 per million people in the United Kingdom. The condition is thought to be more common in Turkey and the Middle East, although its prevalence in these regions is unknown. The condition in all regions is likely underdiagnosed because it is often misdiagnosed as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis."
1267,What are the treatments for mucolipidosis III gamma ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of mucolipidosis III gamma:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Mucolipidosis III Gamma  - Genetic Testing Registry: Mucolipidosis III Gamma  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cloudy Cornea  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Heart Valves   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1268,What are the genetic changes related to fragile X-associated primary ovarian insufficiency ?,"Mutations in the FMR1 gene increase a woman's risk of developing FXPOI. The FMR1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called FMRP, which helps regulate the production of other proteins. This protein plays a role in the functioning of nerve cells. It is also important for normal ovarian function, although the role is not fully understood.  Women with FXPOI have a mutation in which a DNA segment, known as a CGG triplet repeat, is expanded within the FMR1 gene. Normally, this DNA segment is repeated from 5 to about 40 times. In women with FXPOI, however, the CGG segment is repeated 55 to 200 times. This mutation is known as an FMR1 gene premutation. Some studies show that women with about 44 to 54 CGG repeats, known as an intermediate (or gray zone) mutation, can also have features of FXPOI. An expansion of more than 200 repeats, a full mutation, causes a more serious disorder called fragile X syndrome, which is characterized by intellectual disability, learning problems, and certain physical features.  For unknown reasons, the premutation leads to the overproduction of abnormal FMR1 mRNA that contains the expanded repeat region. The FMR1 mRNA is the genetic blueprint for FMRP. Researchers believe that the high levels of mRNA cause the signs and symptoms of FXPOI. It is thought that the mRNA attaches to other proteins and keeps them from performing their functions. In addition, the repeats make producing FMRP from the blueprint more difficult, and as a result, people with the FMR1 gene premutation can have less FMRP than normal. A reduction of this protein is not thought to be involved in FXPOI. However, it may cause mild versions of the features seen in fragile X syndrome, such as prominent ears, anxiety, and mood swings."
1269,What is (are) Pinched Nerve ?,"The term ""pinched nerve"" is a colloquial term and not a true medical term. It is used to describe one type of damage or injury to a nerve or set of nerves. The injury may result from compression, constriction, or stretching. Symptoms include numbness, ""pins and needles"" or burning sensations, and pain radiating outward from the injured area. One of the most common examples of a single compressed nerve is the feeling of having a foot or hand ""fall asleep."" A ""pinched nerve"" frequently is associated with pain in the neck or lower back. This type of pain can be caused by inflammation or pressure on the nerve root as it exits the spine. If the pain is severe or lasts a long time, you may need to have further evaluation from your physician. Several problems can lead to similar symptoms of numbness, pain, and tingling in the hands or feet but without pain in the neck or back. These can include peripheral neuropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome, and tennis elbow. The extent of such injuries may vary from minor, temporary damage to a more permanent condition. Early diagnosis is important to prevent further damage or complications. Pinched nerve is a common cause of on-the-job injury."
1270,What is (are) Prostate Cancer ?,"How Tumors Form The body is made up of many types of cells. Normally, cells grow, divide, and produce more cells as needed to keep the body healthy and functioning properly. Sometimes, however, the process goes wrong -- cells become abnormal and form more cells in an uncontrolled way. These extra cells form a mass of tissue, called a growth or tumor. Tumors can be benign, which means not cancerous, or malignant, which means cancerous. How Prostate Cancer Occurs Prostate cancer occurs when a tumor forms in the tissue of the prostate, a gland in the male reproductive system. In its early stage, prostate cancer needs the male hormone testosterone to grow and survive. The prostate is about the size of a large walnut. It is located below the bladder and in front of the rectum. The prostate's main function is to make fluid for semen, a white substance that carries sperm. Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer among American men. It is a slow-growing disease that mostly affects older men. In fact, more than 60 percent of all prostate cancers are found in men over the age of 65. The disease rarely occurs in men younger than 40 years of age. Prostate Cancer Can Spread Sometimes, cancer cells break away from a malignant tumor in the prostate and enter the bloodstream or the lymphatic system and travel to other organs in the body. When cancer spreads from its original location in the prostate to another part of the body such as the bone, it is called metastatic prostate cancer -- not bone cancer. Doctors sometimes call this distant disease. Surviving Prostate Cancer Today, more men are surviving prostate cancer than ever before. Treatment can be effective, especially when the cancer has not spread beyond the region of the prostate."
1271,What is (are) Aphasia ?,"Aphasia is a neurological disorder caused by damage to the portions of the brain that are responsible for language production or processing. It may occur suddenly or progressively, depending on the type and location of brain tissue involved. Primary signs of the disorder include difficulty in expressing oneself when speaking, trouble understanding speech, and difficulty with reading and writing. Aphasia is not a disease, but a symptom of brain damage. Although it is primarily seen in individuals who have suffered a stroke, aphasia can also result from a brain tumor, infection, inflammation, head injury, or dementia that affect language-associated regions of the brain. It is estimated that about 1 million people in the United States today suffer from aphasia. The type and severity of language dysfunction depends on the precise location and extent of the damaged brain tissue.
                
Generally, aphasia can be divided into four broad categories: (1) Expressive aphasia (also called Broca's aphasia) involves difficulty in conveying thoughts through speech or writing. The person knows what she/he wants to say, but cannot find the words he needs. (2) Receptive aphasia (Wernicke's aphasia) involves difficulty understanding spoken or written language. The individual hears the voice or sees the print but cannot make sense of the words. (3) Global aphasia results from severe and extensive damage to the language areas of the brain. People lose almost all language function, both comprehension and expression. They cannot speak or understand speech, nor can they read or write. (4) Indiivfduals with anomic or amnesia aphasia, the least severe form of aphasia, have difficulty in using the correct names for particular objects, people, places, or events."
1272,What to do for Urinary Tract Infections in Children ?,Children with a UTI should drink as much as they wish and not be forced to drink large amounts of fluid. The health care provider needs to know if a child is not interested in drinking or is unable to drink.
1273,What is the outlook for Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia ?,Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options for JMML depend on the following:         - The age of the child at diagnosis.    - The number of platelets in the blood.    - The amount of a certain type of hemoglobin in red blood cells.
1274,What are the treatments for hereditary folate malabsorption ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary folate malabsorption:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Folate Malabsorption  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital defect of folate absorption  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Folate  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Folate Deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Folate-Deficiency Anemia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Malabsorption   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1275,What is (are) Melnick-Needles syndrome ?,"Melnick-Needles syndrome is a disorder involving abnormalities in skeletal development and other health problems. It is a member of a group of related conditions called otopalatodigital spectrum disorders, which also includes otopalatodigital syndrome type 1, otopalatodigital syndrome type 2, and frontometaphyseal dysplasia. In general, these disorders involve hearing loss caused by malformations in the tiny bones in the ears (ossicles), problems in the development of the roof of the mouth (palate), and skeletal abnormalities involving the fingers and/or toes (digits).  Melnick-Needles syndrome is usually the most severe of the otopalatodigital spectrum disorders. People with this condition are usually of short stature, have an abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), partial dislocation (subluxation) of certain joints, and unusually long fingers and toes. They may have bowed limbs; underdeveloped, irregular ribs that can cause problems with breathing; and other abnormal or absent bones.  Characteristic facial features may include bulging eyes with prominent brow ridges, excess hair growth on the forehead, round cheeks, a very small lower jaw and chin (micrognathia), and misaligned teeth. One side of the face may appear noticeably different from the other (facial asymmetry). Some individuals with this disorder have hearing loss.  In addition to skeletal abnormalities, individuals with Melnick-Needles syndrome may have obstruction of the ducts between the kidneys and bladder (ureters) or heart defects.  Males with Melnick-Needles syndrome generally have much more severe signs and symptoms than do females, and in almost all cases die before or soon after birth."
1276,What is (are) Fetal retinoid syndrome ?,"Fetal retinoid syndrome is a characteristic pattern of physical and mental birth defects that results from maternal use of retinoids during pregnancy. The most well known retinoid is isotretinoin (Accutane), a drug used to treat severe cystic acne. Birth defects associated with fetal retinoid syndrome include: hydrocephalus, microcephaly, intellectual disabilities, ear and eye abnormalities, cleft palate and other facial differences, and heart defects. Isotretinoin can cause these birth defects in the early weeks of pregnancy, even before a woman knows that she is pregnant."
1277,What is the outlook for Microcephaly ?,"Some children with microcephaly will have normal intelligence and a head that will grow bigger, but they may track below the normal growth curves for head circumference. Some children may have only mild disability, while those with more severe cases may face significant learning disabilities, cognitive delays, or develop other neurological disorders. Many, if not most, cases if Zika microcephaly will be very severe, possibly requiring lifelong intensive care."
1278,What is (are) lactose intolerance ?,"Lactose intolerance is an impaired ability to digest lactose, a sugar found in milk and other dairy products. Lactose is normally broken down by an enzyme called lactase, which is produced by cells in the lining of the small intestine.  Congenital lactase deficiency, also called congenital alactasia, is a disorder in which infants are unable to break down lactose in breast milk or formula. This form of lactose intolerance results in severe diarrhea. If affected infants are not given a lactose-free infant formula, they may develop severe dehydration and weight loss.  Lactose intolerance in adulthood is caused by reduced production of lactase after infancy (lactase nonpersistence). If individuals with lactose intolerance consume lactose-containing dairy products, they may experience abdominal pain, bloating, flatulence, nausea, and diarrhea beginning 30 minutes to 2 hours later.  Most people with lactase nonpersistence retain some lactase activity and can include varying amounts of lactose in their diets without experiencing symptoms. Often, affected individuals have difficulty digesting fresh milk but can eat certain dairy products such as cheese or yogurt without discomfort. These foods are made using fermentation processes that break down much of the lactose in milk."
1279,Who is at risk for Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia? ?,Older age and being male increase the risk of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Possible risk factors for CMML include the following:         - Older age.    - Being male.    - Being exposed to certain substances at work or in the environment.    - Being exposed to radiation.    - Past treatment with certain anticancer drugs.
1280,how can patients prevent the spread of vancomycin-resistant enterococci?,"On this Page General Information What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What types of infections does vancomycin-resistant enterococci cause? Are certain people at risk of getting vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What is the treatment for vancomycin-resistant enterococci? How is vancomycin-resistant enterococci spread? How can patients prevent the spread of vancomycin-resistant enterococci? What should a patient do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Recommendations and Guidelines General Information For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library What is vancomycin-resistant enterococci? Enteroccocci are bacteria that are normally present in the human intestines and in the female genital tract and are often found in the environment. These bacteria can sometimes cause infections. Vancomycin is an antibiotic that is used to treat some drug-resistant infections caused by enterococci. In some instances, enterococci have become resistant to this drug and thus are called vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE). Most VRE infections occur in hospitals. Top of page What types of infections does VRE cause? VRE can live in the human intestines and female genital tract without causing disease (often called colonization). However, sometimes it can cause infections of the urinary tract, the bloodstream, or of wounds associated with catheters or surgical procedures. Top of page Are certain people at risk of getting VRE? The following persons are at increased risk becoming infected with VRE: People who have been previously treated with the antibiotic vancomycin or other antibiotics for long periods of time. People who are hospitalized, particularly when they receive antibiotic treatment for long periods of time. People with weakened immune systems such as patients in intensive care units, or in cancer or transplant wards. People who have undergone surgical procedures such as abdominal or chest surgery. People with medical devices that stay in for some time such as urinary catheters or central intravenous (IV) catheters. People who are colonized with VRE. Top of page What is the treatment for VRE? People with colonized VRE (bacteria are present, but have no symptoms of an infection)  do not need treatment. Most VRE infections can be treated with antibiotics other than vancomycin. Laboratory testing of the VRE can determine which antibiotics will work. For people who get VRE infections in their bladder and have urinary catheters, removal of the catheter when it is no longer needed can also help get rid of the infection. Top of page How is VRE spread? VRE is often passed from person to person by the contaminated hands of caregivers. VRE can get onto a caregiver's hands after they have contact with other people with VRE or after contact with contaminated surfaces. VRE can also be spread directly to people after they touch surfaces that are contaminated with VRE. VRE is not spread through the air by coughing or sneezing. Top of page How can patients prevent the spread of VRE? If a patient or someone in their household has VRE, the following are some things they can do to prevent the spread of VRE: Keep their hands clean. Always wash their hands thoroughly after using the bathroom and before preparing food. Clean their hands after contact with persons who have VRE. Wash with soap and water (particularly when visibly soiled) or use alcohol-based hand rubs. Frequently clean areas of the home, such as bathrooms, that may become contaminated with VRE. Wear gloves if hands may come in contact with body fluids that may contain VRE, such as stool or bandages from infected wounds. Always wash their hands after removing gloves. If someone has VRE, be sure to tell healthcare providers so that they are aware of the infection. Healthcare facilities use special precautions to help prevent the spread of VRE to others. Top of page What should patients do if they think they have vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE)? Anyone who thinks they have VRE must talk with their healthcare provider. Top of page Recommendations and Guidelines For more information about prevention and treatment of HAIs, see the resources below: Siegel JD, Rhinehart E, Jackson M, et al. The Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC). Management of Multidrug-Resistant Organisms In Healthcare Settings, 2006"
1281,What causes Pars planitis ?,"What causes pars planitis? The exact underlying cause of pars planitis is unknown. Scientists suspect that it is an autoimmune condition in which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissues (certain parts of the eyes, in this case). This is further supported by the fact that pars planitis is sometimes associated with other autoimmune conditions such as multiple sclerosis and sarcoidosis. Although most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition, pars planitis can rarely affect more than one family member. In these cases, there may be a genetic component; however, a disease-causing gene and specific inheritance pattern have not been identified."
1282,What are the genetic changes related to horizontal gaze palsy with progressive scoliosis ?,"HGPPS is caused by mutations in the ROBO3 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is important for the normal development of certain nerve pathways in the brain. These include motor nerve pathways, which transmit information about voluntary muscle movement, and sensory nerve pathways, which transmit information about sensory input (such as touch, pain, and temperature). For the brain and the body to communicate effectively, these nerve pathways must cross from one side of the body to the other in the brainstem, a region that connects the upper parts of the brain with the spinal cord.  The ROBO3 protein plays a critical role in ensuring that motor and sensory nerve pathways cross over in the brainstem. In people with HGPPS, these pathways do not cross over, but stay on the same side of the body. Researchers believe that this miswiring in the brainstem is the underlying cause of the eye movement abnormalities associated with the disorder. The cause of progressive scoliosis in HGPPS is unclear. Researchers are working to determine why the effects of ROBO3 mutations appear to be limited to horizontal eye movement and scoliosis."
1283,What are the symptoms of Familial juvenile hyperuricaemic nephropathy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Familial juvenile hyperuricaemic nephropathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial juvenile hyperuricaemic nephropathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Gout - Juvenile onset - Nephropathy - Progressive - Renal insufficiency - Tubular atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1284,How to diagnose 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome ?,How is 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome diagnosed? The deletion can be identified by comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) microarray and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).
1285,What are the symptoms of Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia? Usually florid cemento-osseous dysplasia causes no signs or symptoms and is identified incidentally during a radiograph taken for some other purpose. Occasionally however, the lesions expand causing discomfort, pain, and/or mild disfigurement. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cementoma - Misalignment of teeth - Multiple impacted teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1286,How many people are affected by mycosis fungoides ?,"Mycosis fungoides occurs in about 1 in 100,000 to 350,000 individuals. It accounts for approximately 70 percent of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. For unknown reasons, mycosis fungoides affects males nearly twice as often as females. In the United States, there are an estimated 3.6 cases per million people each year. The condition has been found in regions around the world."
1287,What is the outlook for Hydromyelia ?,"Surgery may permanently or temporarily relieve symptoms, but it can also cause a number of severe complications. In rare cases, hydromyelia may resolve on its own without any medical intervention."
1288,What is the outlook for Megalencephaly ?,The prognosis for infants and children with megalencephaly depends upon the underlying cause and the associated neurological disorders. The prognosis for children with hemimegalencephaly is poor.
1289,What are the symptoms of Dent disease 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dent disease 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dent disease 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria - Bone pain - Bowing of the legs - Bulging epiphyses - Chronic kidney disease - Delayed epiphyseal ossification - Enlargement of the ankles - Enlargement of the wrists - Femoral bowing - Fibular bowing - Glycosuria - Hypercalciuria - Hyperphosphaturia - Hypophosphatemia - Increased serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 - Low-molecular-weight proteinuria - Metaphyseal irregularity - Microscopic hematuria - Nephrocalcinosis - Nephrolithiasis - Osteomalacia - Phenotypic variability - Proximal tubulopathy - Recurrent fractures - Renal phosphate wasting - Rickets - Short stature - Sparse bone trabeculae - Thin bony cortex - Tibial bowing - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1290,"What is (are) Hereditary endotheliopathy, retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke ?","Hereditary endotheliopathy with retinopathy, nephropathy, and stroke (HERNS) is a rare genetic condition that affects the vascular endothelium (the inner lining of the arteries and blood vessels). Specifically, the small blood vessels of the brain (microangiopathy); retina (vascular retinopathy); and kidneys are affected. Signs and symptoms may include progressive adult onset vision loss, psychiatric disturbances, stroke-like episodes, neurologic decline, and kidney disease. HERNS is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. The term retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy (RVCL) has recently been adopted to include HERNS; cerebroretinal vasculopathy (CRV); and hereditary vascular retinopathy (HVR); historically, these 3 conditions have been considered distinct. Genetic studies have shown that these 3 conditions are likely variations of RVCL and are caused by mutations in the TREX1 gene."
1291,What is (are) Autoimmune Diseases ?,"Your body's immune system protects you from disease and infection. But if you have an autoimmune disease, your immune system attacks healthy cells in your body by mistake. Autoimmune diseases can affect many parts of the body.    No one is sure what causes autoimmune diseases. They do tend to run in families. Women - particularly African-American, Hispanic-American, and Native-American women - have a higher risk for some autoimmune diseases.    There are more than 80 types of autoimmune diseases, and some have similar symptoms. This makes it hard for your health care provider to know if you really have one of these diseases, and if so, which one. Getting a diagnosis can be frustrating and stressful. Often, the first symptoms are fatigue, muscle aches and a low fever. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain and swelling.    The diseases may also have flare-ups, when they get worse, and remissions, when symptoms get better or disappear. Treatment depends on the disease, but in most cases one important goal is to reduce inflammation. Sometimes doctors prescribe corticosteroids or other drugs that reduce your immune response."
1292,What is (are) lactate dehydrogenase deficiency ?,"Lactate dehydrogenase deficiency is a condition that affects how the body breaks down sugar to use as energy in cells, primarily muscle cells.  There are two types of this condition: lactate dehydrogenase-A deficiency (sometimes called glycogen storage disease XI) and lactate dehydrogenase-B deficiency.  People with lactate dehydrogenase-A deficiency experience fatigue, muscle pain, and cramps during exercise (exercise intolerance). In some people with lactate dehydrogenase-A deficiency, high-intensity exercise or other strenuous activity leads to the breakdown of muscle tissue (rhabdomyolysis). The destruction of muscle tissue releases a protein called myoglobin, which is processed by the kidneys and released in the urine (myoglobinuria). Myoglobin causes the urine to be red or brown. This protein can also damage the kidneys, in some cases leading to life-threatening kidney failure. Some people with lactate dehydrogenase-A deficiency develop skin rashes. The severity of the signs and symptoms among individuals with lactate dehydrogenase-A deficiency varies greatly.  People with lactate dehydrogenase-B deficiency typically do not have any signs or symptoms of the condition. They do not have difficulty with physical activity or any specific physical features related to the condition. Affected individuals are usually discovered only when routine blood tests reveal reduced lactate dehydrogenase activity."
1293,What is (are) Marshall syndrome ?,"Marshall syndrome is an inherited condition characterized by a distinctive facial appearance, eye abnormalities, hearing loss, and early-onset arthritis. Those with Marshall syndrome can also have short stature. Some researchers have argued that Marshall syndrome represents a variant form of Stickler syndrome; but this remains controversial. Marshall syndrome is caused by mutations in the COL11A1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion."
1294,What are the treatments for GM1 gangliosidosis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of GM1 gangliosidosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gangliosidosis GM1 type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gangliosidosis generalized GM1 type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Infantile GM1 gangliosidosis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile GM>1< gangliosidosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1295,What are the symptoms of Retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Retinal vasculopathy with cerebral leukodystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the retinal vasculature 90% Visual impairment 90% Abnormality of movement 50% Behavioral abnormality 50% Cerebral ischemia 50% Developmental regression 50% Hematuria 50% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 50% Migraine 50% Nephropathy 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Proteinuria 50% Retinopathy 50% Seizures 50% Cataract 7.5% Glaucoma 7.5% Incoordination 7.5% Micronodular cirrhosis 5% Abnormality of the musculature of the lower limbs - Abnormality of the periventricular white matter - Adult onset - Apraxia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Central nervous system degeneration - Dementia - Dysarthria - Elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Hemiparesis - Limb pain - Lower limb hyperreflexia - Macular edema - Pigmentary retinal degeneration - Progressive - Progressive forgetfulness - Progressive visual loss - Punctate vasculitis skin lesions - Retinal exudate - Retinal hemorrhage - Stroke - Telangiectasia - Vasculitis in the skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1296,What are the treatments for Hydranencephaly ?,There is no definitive treatment for hydranencephaly. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Hydrocephalus may be treated with a shunt (a surgically implanted tube that diverts fluid from one pathway to another).
1297,How to diagnose Waardenburg syndrome ?,"How is Waardenburg syndrome diagnosed? A diagnosis of Waardenburg syndrome (WS) is made based on signs and symptoms present. In 1992, the Waardenburg Consortium proposed diagnostic criteria, which includes both major and minor criteria. A clinical diagnosis of WS type 1 (the most common type) needs 2 major, or 1 major and 2 minor criteria. Major criteria: Congenital sensorineural hearing loss Iris pigmentary (coloration) abnormality, such as heterochromia iridis (complete, partial, or segmental); pale blue eyes (isohypochromia iridis); or pigmentary abnormalities of the fundus (part of the eye opposite the pupil) Abnormalities of hair pigmentation, such as white forelock (lock of hair above the forehead), or loss of hair color Dystopia canthorum  lateral displacement of inner angles (canthi) of the eyes (in WS types 1 and 3 only) Having a 1st degree relative with Waardenburg syndrome Minor criteria: Congenital leukoderma (hypopigmented patches of skin) Synophrys (connected eyebrows or ""unibrow"") or medial eyebrow flare Broad or high nasal bridge (uppermost part of the nose) Hypoplasia of the nostrils Premature gray hair (under age 30) WS type 2 has similar features to WS type 1, but the inner canthi are normal (no dystopia cantorum present). WS type 3 also has similar features to WS type 1, but is additionally characterized by musculoskeletal abnormalities such as muscle hypoplasia (underdevelopment); flexion contractures (inability to straighten joints); or syndactyly (webbed or fused fingers or toes). WS type 4 has similar features to WS type 2, but with Hirschsprung disease (a condition resulting from missing nerve cells in the muscles of part or all of the large intestine)."
1298,What is the outlook for Kidney Dysplasia ?,"The long-term outlook for a child with kidney dysplasia in only one kidney is generally good. A person with one working kidney, a condition called solitary kidney, can grow normally and may have few, if any, health problems.
                
The affected kidney may shrink as the child grows. By age 10,3 the affected kidney may no longer be visible on x-ray or ultrasound. Children and adults with only one working kidney should have regular checkups to test for high blood pressure and kidney damage. A child with urinary tract problems that lead to failure of the working kidney may eventually need dialysis or a kidney transplant.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, solitary kidney, dialysis, and kidney transplants."
1299,What is (are) familial Mediterranean fever ?,"Familial Mediterranean fever is an inherited condition characterized by recurrent episodes of painful inflammation in the abdomen, chest, or joints. These episodes are often accompanied by fever and sometimes a rash or headache. Occasionally inflammation may occur in other parts of the body, such as the heart; the membrane surrounding the brain and spinal cord; and in males, the testicles. In about half of affected individuals, attacks are preceded by mild signs and symptoms known as a prodrome. Prodromal symptoms include mildly uncomfortable sensations in the area that will later become inflamed, or more general feelings of discomfort.  The first episode of illness in familial Mediterranean fever usually occurs in childhood or the teenage years, but in some cases, the initial attack occurs much later in life. Typically, episodes last 12 to 72 hours and can vary in severity. The length of time between attacks is also variable and can range from days to years. During these periods, affected individuals usually have no signs or symptoms related to the condition. However, without treatment to help prevent attacks and complications, a buildup of protein deposits (amyloidosis) in the body's organs and tissues may occur, especially in the kidneys, which can lead to kidney failure."
1300,How to diagnose Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection ?,"The tests used to diagnose pyelonephritis depend on the patients age, gender, and response to treatment and include the following:
                
- Urinalysis. Urinalysis is testing of a urine sample. The urine sample is collected in a special container in a health care providers office or commercial facility and can be tested in the same location or sent to a lab for analysis. The presence of white blood cells and bacteria in the urine indicate infection.  - Urine culture. A urine culture is performed by placing part of a urine sample in a tube or dish with a substance that encourages any bacteria present to grow. The urine sample is collected in a special container in a health care providers office or commercial facility and sent to a lab for culture. Once the bacteria have multiplied, which usually takes 1 to 3 days, they can be identified. The health care provider can then determine the best treatment.  - Ultrasound. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaging; anesthesia is not needed. The images can show obstructions in the urinary tract. Ultrasound is often used for people who do not respond to treatment within 72 hours.  - Computerized tomography (CT) scan. CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create three-dimensional (3-D) images. A CT scan may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. CT scans require the person to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. CT scans can show obstructions in the urinary tract. The test is often used for people who do not respond to treatment within 72 hours.  - Voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG). A VCUG is an x-ray image of the bladder and urethra taken while the bladder is full and during urination, also called voiding. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician supervised by a radiologist, who then interprets the images. Anesthesia is not needed, but sedation may be used for some people. The bladder and urethra are filled with contrast medium to make the structures clearly visible on the x-ray images. The x-ray machine captures images of the contrast medium while the bladder is full and when the person urinates. This test can show abnormalities of the inside of the urethra and bladder and is usually used to detect VUR in children.  - Digital rectal examination (DRE). A DRE is a physical exam of the prostate that is performed in the health care providers office. Anesthesia is not needed. To perform the exam, the health care provider asks the person to bend over a table or lie on his side while holding his knees close to his chest. The health care provider slides a gloved, lubricated finger into the rectum and feels the part of the prostate that lies in front of the rectum. Men with suspected pyelonephritis may have a DRE to determine whether a swollen prostate may be obstructing the neck of the bladder.  - Dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) scintigraphy. DMSA scintigraphy is an imaging technique that relies on the detection of small amounts of radiation after injection of radioactive material. Because the dose of radioactive material is small, the risk of causing damage to cells is low. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist. Anesthesia is not needed. Radioactive material is injected into a vein in the persons arm and travels through the body to the kidneys. Special cameras and computers are used to create images of the radioactive material as it passes through the kidneys. The radioactive material makes the parts of the kidney that are infected or scarred stand out on the image. DMSA scintigraphy is used to show the severity of kidney infection or kidney damage, such as scarring."
1301,How many people are affected by autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 ?,"More than 100 people have been diagnosed with ARCA1. This condition was first discovered in individuals from the Beauce and Bas-Saint-Laurent regions of Quebec, Canada, but it has since been found in populations worldwide."
1302,How many people are affected by cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome ?,Cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome is a very rare condition whose incidence is unknown. Researchers estimate that 200 to 300 people worldwide have this condition.
1303,What causes Dextrocardia with situs inversus ?,"What causes dextrocardia with situs inversus? The exact cause of dextrocardia with situs inversus is not known, but the condition results from the abnormal positioning of the internal organs during fetal development. More than 60 known genes are important for the proper positioning and patterning of the organs in the body. However, a specific genetic cause of dextrocardia with situs inversus has not been identified and inheritance patterns have not been confirmed in most cases. Some people have dextrocardia with situs inversus as part of an underlying condition called primary ciliary dyskinesia. Primary ciliary dyskinesia can result from changes (mutations) in several different genes, including the DNAI1 and DNAH5 gene; however, the genetic cause is unknown in many families."
1304,What are the genetic changes related to FOXG1 syndrome ?,"As its name suggests, FOXG1 syndrome is caused by changes involving the FOXG1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called forkhead box G1. This protein plays an important role in brain development before birth, particularly in a region of the embryonic brain known as the telencephalon. The telencephalon ultimately develops into several critical structures, including the the largest part of the brain (the cerebrum), which controls most voluntary activity, language, sensory perception, learning, and memory.  In some cases, FOXG1 syndrome is caused by mutations within the FOXG1 gene itself. In others, the condition results from a deletion of genetic material from a region of the long (q) arm of chromosome 14 that includes the FOXG1 gene. All of these genetic changes prevent the production of forkhead box G1 or impair the protein's function. A shortage of functional forkhead box G1 disrupts normal brain development starting before birth, which appears to underlie the structural brain abnormalities and severe developmental problems characteristic of FOXG1 syndrome."
1305,What is (are) Tuberculosis ?,"Tuberculosis (TB) is a disease caused by bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but they can also damage other parts of the body.     TB spreads through the air when a person with TB of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, or talks. If you have been exposed, you should go to your doctor for tests. You are more likely to get TB if you have a weak immune system.    Symptoms of TB in the lungs may include       -  A bad cough that lasts 3 weeks or longer    -  Weight loss    -  Loss of appetite    -  Coughing up blood or mucus    -  Weakness or fatigue     -  Fever    -  Night sweats       Skin tests, blood tests, x-rays, and other tests can tell if you have TB. If not treated properly, TB can be deadly. You can usually cure active TB by taking several medicines for a long period of time.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
1306,What are the genetic changes related to hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies ?,"Mutations in the PMP22 gene cause hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies.  Hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies is caused by the loss of one copy of the PMP22 gene or alterations within the gene. The consequences of PMP22 gene mutations are not clearly understood. Most likely, PMP22 gene mutations affect myelin, the protective substance that covers nerve cells. As a result of these mutations, some of the protective myelin covering may become unstable, which leads to increased sensitivity to pressure on the nerves."
1307,What is (are) Blastomycosis ?,"Blastomycosis is a rare infection that may develop when people inhale a fungus called Blastomyces dermatitidis, a fungus that is found in moist soil, particularly where there is rotting vegetation. The fungus enters the body through the lungs, infecting them. The fungus then spreads to other areas of the body. The infection may affect the skin, bones and joints, and other areas. The disease usually affects people with weakened immune systems, such as those with HIV or who have had an organ transplant."
1308,How to prevent Endometrial Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.    - The following risk factors increase the risk of endometrial cancer:          - Endometrial hyperplasia     - Estrogen     - Tamoxifen     - Obesity, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes     - Genetic factors        - The following protective factors decrease the risk of endometrial cancer:         - Pregnancy and breast-feeding     - Combination oral contraceptives     - Physical activity     - Cigarette smoking        - It is not known if the following factors affect the risk of endometrial cancer:         - Weight loss     - Fruits, vegetables, and vitamins        - Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.    - New ways to prevent endometrial cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                
                
                    Avoiding risk factors and increasing protective factors may help prevent cancer.
                    Avoiding cancer risk factors may help prevent certain cancers. Risk factors include smoking, being overweight, and not getting enough exercise. Increasing protective factors such as quitting smoking and exercising may also help prevent some cancers. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about how you might lower your risk of cancer.
                
                
                    The following risk factors increase the risk of endometrial cancer:
                    Endometrial hyperplasia     Endometrial hyperplasia is an abnormal thickening of the endometrium (lining of the uterus). It is not cancer, but in some cases, it may lead to endometrial cancer.        Estrogen     Estrogen is a hormone made by the body. It helps the body develop and maintain female sex characteristics. Estrogen can affect the growth of some cancers, including endometrial cancer.     A woman's risk of developing endometrial cancer is increased by being exposed to estrogen in the following ways:            - Estrogen-only hormone replacement therapy: Estrogen may be given to replace the estrogen no longer produced by the ovaries in postmenopausal women or women whose ovaries have been removed. This is called hormone replacement therapy (HRT), or hormone therapy (HT). The use of HRT that contains only estrogen increases the risk of endometrial cancer and endometrial hyperplasia. For this reason, estrogen therapy alone is usually prescribed only for women who do not have a uterus. HRT that contains only estrogen also increases the risk of stroke and blood clots. When estrogen is combined with progestin (another hormone), it is called combination estrogen-progestin replacement therapy. For postmenopausal women, taking estrogen in combination with progestin does not increase the risk of endometrial cancer, but it does increase the risk of breast cancer. (See the Breast Cancer Prevention summary for more information.)     - Early menstruation: Beginning to have menstrual periods at an early age increases the number of years the body is exposed to estrogen and increases a woman's risk of endometrial cancer.     - Late menopause: Women who reach menopause at an older age are exposed to estrogen for a longer time and have an increased risk of endometrial cancer.     - Never being pregnant: Because estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy, women who have never been pregnant are exposed to estrogen for a longer time than women who have been pregnant. This increases the risk of endometrial cancer.               Tamoxifen     Tamoxifen is one of a group of drugs called selective estrogen receptor modulators, or SERMs. Tamoxifen acts like estrogen on some tissues in the body, such as the uterus, but blocks the effects of estrogen on other tissues, such as the breast. Tamoxifen is used to prevent breast cancer in women who are at high risk for the disease. However, using tamoxifen for more than 2 years increases the risk of endometrial cancer. This risk is greater in postmenopausal women.      Raloxifene is a SERM that is used to prevent bone weakness in postmenopausal women. However, it does not have estrogen-like effects on the uterus and has not been shown to increase the risk of endometrial cancer.        Obesity, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, and diabetes     Obesity, gaining weight as an adult, or having metabolic syndrome increases the risk of endometrial cancer. Obesity is related to other risk factors such as high estrogen levels, having extra fat around the waist, polycystic ovary syndrome, and lack of physical activity.    Having metabolic syndrome increases the risk of endometrial cancer. Metabolic syndrome is a condition that includes extra fat around the waist, high blood sugar, high blood pressure, and high levels of triglycerides (a type of fat) in the blood.        Genetic factors     Hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer (HNPCC) syndrome (also known as Lynch Syndrome) is an inherited disorder caused by changes in certain genes. Women who have HNPCC syndrome have a much higher risk of developing endometrial cancer than women who do not have HNPCC syndrome.    Polycystic ovary syndrome (a disorder of the hormones made by the ovaries), and Cowden syndrome are inherited conditions that are linked to an increased risk of endometrial cancer.    Women with a family history of endometrial cancer in a first-degree relative (mother, sister, or daughter) are also at increased risk of endometrial cancer.
                
                
                    The following protective factors decrease the risk of endometrial cancer:
                    Pregnancy and breast-feeding    Estrogen levels are lower during pregnancy and when breast-feeding. The risk of endometrial cancer is lower in women who have had children. Breastfeeding for more than 18 months also decreases the risk of endometrial cancer.       Combination oral contraceptives    Taking contraceptives that combine estrogen and progestin (combination oral contraceptives) decreases the risk of endometrial cancer. The protective effect of combination oral contraceptives increases with the length of time they are used, and can last for many years after oral contraceptive use has been stopped.    While taking oral contraceptives, women have a higher risk of blood clots, stroke, and heart attack, especially women who smoke and are older than 35 years.       Physical activity    Physical activity at home (exercise) or on the job may lower the risk of endometrial cancer.        Cigarette smoking     Smoking at least 20 cigarettes a day may lower the risk of endometrial cancer. The risk of endometrial cancer is even lower in postmenopausal women who smoke.    However, there are many proven harms of smoking. Cigarette smokers live about 10 years less than nonsmokers. Cigarette smokers also have an increased risk of the following:            - Heart disease.     -  Head and neck cancers.     -  Lung cancer.     -  Bladder cancer.     -  Pancreatic cancer.
                
                
                    It is not known if the following factors affect the risk of endometrial cancer:
                    Weight loss    It is not known if losing weight decreases the risk of endometrial cancer.       Fruits, vegetables, and vitamins    A diet that includes, fruits, vegetables, phytoestrogen, soy, and vitamin D has not been found to affect the risk of endometrial cancer.     Taking multivitamins has little or no effect on the risk of common cancers, including endometrial cancer.
                
                
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to prevent cancer.
                    Cancer prevention clinical trials are used to study ways to lower the risk of developing certain types of cancer. Some cancer prevention trials are conducted with healthy people who have not had cancer but who have an increased risk for cancer. Other prevention trials are conducted with people who have had cancer and are trying to prevent another cancer of the same type or to lower their chance of developing a new type of cancer. Other trials are done with healthy volunteers who are not known to have any risk factors for cancer.    The purpose of some cancer prevention clinical trials is to find out whether actions people take can prevent cancer. These may include eating fruits and vegetables, exercising, quitting smoking, or taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements.
                
                
                    New ways to prevent endometrial cancer are being studied in clinical trials.
                    Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about clinical trials can be found in the Clinical Trials section of the NCI website. Check NCI's list of cancer clinical trials for endometrial cancer prevention trials that are now accepting patients."
1309,Who is at risk for Parasites - American Trypanosomiasis (also known as Chagas Disease)? ?,"Chagas disease, or American trypanosomiasis, is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. Infection is most commonly acquired through contact with the feces of an infected triatomine bug (or ""kissing bug""), a blood-sucking insect that feeds on humans and animals.
    
Infection can also occur from:
    
     - mother-to-baby (congenital),
     - contaminated blood products (transfusions),
     - an organ transplanted from an infected donor,
     - laboratory accident, or
     - contaminated food or drink (rare)
    
    
Chagas disease is endemic throughout much of Mexico, Central America, and South America where an estimated 8 million people are infected. The triatomine bug thrives under poor housing conditions (for example, mud walls, thatched roofs), so in endemic countries, people living in rural areas are at greatest risk for acquiring infection. Public health efforts aimed at preventing transmission have decreased the number of newly infected people and completely halted vectorborne transmission in some areas. Infection acquired from blood products, organ transplantation, or congenital transmission continues to pose a threat.
    
By applying published seroprevalence figures to immigrant populations, CDC estimates that more than 300,000 persons with Trypanosoma cruzi infection live in the United States. Most people with Chagas disease in the United States acquired their infections in endemic countries. Although there are triatomine bugs in the U.S. , only rare vectorborne cases of Chagas disease have been documented.
    
More on: Triatomine Bugs"
1310,How many people are affected by ocular albinism ?,"The most common form of this disorder, ocular albinism type 1, affects at least 1 in 60,000 males. The classic signs and symptoms of this condition are much less common in females."
1311,What is (are) Lung Cancer ?,"A person who has had lung cancer once is more likely to develop a second lung cancer compared to a person who has never had lung cancer. Second cancers arise in a different site than the original cancer. If the original cancer returns after treatment, it is considered recurrent, not a second cancer. Quitting smoking after lung cancer is diagnosed may prevent the development of a second lung cancer."
1312,What are the treatments for Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Axenfeld-Rieger syndrome type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Rieger syndrome  - Glaucoma Research Foundation: Care and Treatment   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1313,What are the treatments for Reticulohistiocytoma ?,"How might reticulohistiocytoma be treated? Reticulohistiocytoma (RH) typically resolve spontaneously over a period of months to years; however, surgical excision usually results in a cure."
1314,What are the stages of Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma ?,"Key Points
                    - After childhood Hodgkin lymphoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the lymph system or to other parts of the body.    - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Stages of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma may include A, B, E, and S.     - The following stages are used for childhood Hodgkin lymphoma:          - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV        - Untreated Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into risk groups.
                
                
                    After childhood Hodgkin lymphoma has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the lymph system or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the lymph system or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. Treatment is based on the stage and other factors that affect prognosis.    The following tests and procedures may be used in the staging process:          -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the neck, chest, abdomen, or pelvis, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   PET scan (positron emission tomography scan): A procedure to find malignant tumor cells in the body. A small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein. The PET scanner rotates around the body and makes a picture of where glucose is being used in the body. Malignant tumor cells show up brighter in the picture because they are more active and take up more glucose than normal cells do. Sometimes a PET scan and a CT scan are done at the same time. If there is any cancer, this increases the chance that it will be found.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI). An MRI of the abdomen and pelvis may be done.    -   Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy : The removal of bone marrow and a small piece of bone by inserting a hollow needle into the hipbone or breastbone. A pathologist views the bone marrow and bone under a microscope to look for abnormal cells.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Stages of childhood Hodgkin lymphoma may include A, B, E, and S.
                    Childhood Hodgkin lymphoma may be described as follows:         - A: The patient does not have B symptoms (fever, weight loss, or night sweats).    - B: The patient has B symptoms.    - E: Cancer is found in an organ or tissue that is not part of the lymph system but which may be next to an area of the lymph system affected by the cancer.     - S: Cancer is found in the spleen.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for childhood Hodgkin lymphoma:
                    Stage I      Stage I is divided into stage I and stage IE.            -  Stage I: Cancer is found in one of the following places in the lymph system:                  - One or more lymph nodes in one lymph node group.       - Waldeyer's ring.       -  Thymus.       -  Spleen.                -  Stage IE: Cancer is found outside the lymph system in one organ or area.              Stage II     Stage II is divided into stage II and stage IIE.            -  Stage II: Cancer is found in two or more lymph node groups either above or below the diaphragm (the thin muscle below the lungs that helps breathing and separates the chest from the abdomen).     -  Stage IIE: Cancer is found in one or more lymph node groups either above or below the diaphragm and outside the lymph nodes in a nearby organ or area.              Stage III      Stage III is divided into stage III, stage IIIE, stage IIIS, and stage IIIE,S.            -  Stage III: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm (the thin muscle below the lungs that helps breathing and separates the chest from the abdomen).     -  Stage IIIE: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm and outside the lymph nodes in a nearby organ or area.     -  Stage IIIS: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm, and in the spleen.     -  Stage IIIE,S: Cancer is found in lymph node groups above and below the diaphragm, outside the lymph nodes in a nearby organ or area, and in the spleen.              Stage IV     In stage IV, the cancer:            - is found outside the lymph nodes throughout one or more organs, and may be in lymph nodes near those organs; or     - is found outside the lymph nodes in one organ and has spread to areas far away from that organ; or     - is found in the lung, liver, bone marrow, or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The cancer has not spread to the lung, liver, bone marrow, or CSF from nearby areas.
                
                
                    Untreated Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into risk groups.
                    Untreated childhood Hodgkin lymphoma is divided into risk groups based on the stage, size of the tumor, and whether the patient has B symptoms (fever, weight loss, or night sweats). The risk group is used to plan treatment.          -  Low-risk childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.    -  Intermediate-risk childhood Hodgkin lymphoma.    -  High-risk childhood Hodgkin lymphoma."
1315,What is (are) Polydactyly ?,"Polydactyly is a condition in which a person has more than five fingers per hand or five toes per foot. It is the most common birth defect of the hand and foot. Polydactyly can occur as an isolated finding such that the person has no other physical anomalies or intellectual impairment. However, it can occur in association with other birth defects and cognitive abnormalities as part of a genetic syndrome. In some cases, the extra digits may be well-formed and functional. Surgery may be considered especially for poorly formed digits or very large extra digits. Surgical management depends greatly on the complexity of the deformity. [1] [2]"
1316,How many people are affected by Legius syndrome ?,The prevalence of Legius syndrome is unknown. Many individuals with this disorder are likely misdiagnosed because the signs and symptoms of Legius syndrome are similar to those of neurofibromatosis type 1.
1317,What are the treatments for Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: POLG-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Progressive sclerosing poliodystrophy  - United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation: Diagnosis of Mitochondrial Disease   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1318,What is (are) Turner syndrome ?,"Turner syndrome is a chromosomal condition that affects development in females. The most common feature of Turner syndrome is short stature, which becomes evident by about age 5. An early loss of ovarian function (ovarian hypofunction or premature ovarian failure) is also very common. The ovaries develop normally at first, but egg cells (oocytes) usually die prematurely and most ovarian tissue degenerates before birth. Many affected girls do not undergo puberty unless they receive hormone therapy, and most are unable to conceive (infertile). A small percentage of females with Turner syndrome retain normal ovarian function through young adulthood.  About 30 percent of females with Turner syndrome have extra folds of skin on the neck (webbed neck), a low hairline at the back of the neck, puffiness or swelling (lymphedema) of the hands and feet, skeletal abnormalities, or kidney problems. One third to one half of individuals with Turner syndrome are born with a heart defect, such as a narrowing of the large artery leaving the heart (coarctation of the aorta) or abnormalities of the valve that connects the aorta with the heart (the aortic valve). Complications associated with these heart defects can be life-threatening.  Most girls and women with Turner syndrome have normal intelligence. Developmental delays, nonverbal learning disabilities, and behavioral problems are possible, although these characteristics vary among affected individuals."
1319,What is (are) Indigestion ?,"Indigestion, also known as dyspepsia, is a term used to describe one or more symptoms including a feeling of fullness during a meal, uncomfortable fullness after a meal, and burning or pain in the upper abdomen.
                
Indigestion is common in adults and can occur once in a while or as often as every day."
1320,What are the treatments for Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.    - Children with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.     - Childhood brain tumors may cause signs or symptoms that begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years.    - Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.     -  Four types of treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Chemotherapy     - Radiation therapy     - High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.         - Targeted therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT). Treatment for AT/RT is usually within a clinical trial. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website. Choosing the most appropriate cancer treatment is a decision that ideally involves the patient, family, and health care team.
                
                
                    Children with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other pediatric health care providers who are experts in treating children with central nervous system cancer and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:          -  Pediatrician.    - Pediatric neurosurgeon.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Neurologist.    -  Pediatric nurse specialist.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.    -  Psychologist.    -  Social worker.    -  Geneticist or genetic counselor.
                
                
                    Childhood brain tumors may cause signs or symptoms that begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years.
                    Signs or symptoms caused by the tumor may begin before diagnosis. These signs or symptoms may continue for months or years. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about signs or symptoms caused by the tumor that may continue after treatment.
                
                
                    Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.
                    Side effects from cancer treatment that begin during or after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment may include the following:         - Physical problems.    - Changes in mood, feelings, thinking, learning, or memory.    -  Second cancers (new types of cancer).        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on your child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information).
                
                
                    Four types of treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Surgery is used to diagnose and treat CNS atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor. See the General Information section of this summary.    Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, most patients will be given chemotherapy and possibly radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.             - When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect tumor cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Regular doses of anticancer drugs given by mouth or vein to treat brain and spinal cord tumors cannot cross the blood-brain barrier and reach the tumor. Anticancer drugs injected into the cerebrospinal fluid are able to reach the tumor. This is called intrathecal chemotherapy.     - When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach tumor cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). High doses of some anticancer drugs given into a vein can cross the blood-brain barrier and reach the tumor.              Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of tumor being treated and whether it has spread. External radiation therapy may be given to the brain and spinal cord.     Because radiation therapy can affect growth and brain development in young children, especially children who are three years old or younger, the dose of radiation therapy may be lower than in older children.        High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a method of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack specific cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. Targeted therapy is being studied in the treatment of recurrent childhood central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.    Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                 
							            Treatment Options for Newly Diagnosed Childhood CNS Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor
							            
							                
							                    Key Points
							                    - There is no standard treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.     - Combinations of treatments are used for patients with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
							                
							                
							                    There is no standard treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
							                    
							                
							                
							                    Combinations of treatments are used for patients with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
							                    Because atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) is fast-growing, a combination of treatments is usually given. After surgery to remove the tumor, treatments for AT/RT may include combinations of the following:         - Chemotherapy.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant.         Clinical trials of new treatments should be considered for patients with newly diagnosed atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor."
1321,What is (are) Barth Syndrome ?,"Barth syndrome (BTHS) is a rare, genetic disorder of lipid metabolism that primarily affects males. It is caused by a mutation in the tafazzin gene (TAZ, also called G4.5) which leads to decreased production of an enzyme required to produce cardiolipin. Cardiolipin is an essential lipid that is important in energy metabolism. BTHS, which affects multiple body systems, is considered serious. Its main characteristics often include combinations in varying degrees of heart muscle weakness (cardiomyopathy), neutropenia (low white blood cell cunt, which may lead to an increased risk for bacterial infections), reduced muscle tone (hypotonia), muscle weakness, undeveloped skeletal muscles, delayed growth, fatigue, varying degrees of physical disability, and methylglutaconic aciduria (an increase in an organic acid that results in abnormal mitochondria function). Although some with BTHS may have all of these characteristics, others may have only one or two and are often misdiagnosed. BTHS is an X-linked genetic condition passed from mother to son through the X chromosome. A mother who is a carrier of BTHS typically shows no signs or symptoms of the disorder herself. On average, 50 percent of children born to a carrier mother will inherit the defective gene, but only boys will develop symptoms. All daughters born to an affected male will be carriers but typically will not have symptoms."
1322,Is Congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens inherited ?,"How is congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) inherited? When this condition is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. This pattern of inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have a mutation. Parents of a person with CBAVD each carry one CFTR mutation, but are usually unaffected (carriers). Men with CBAVD who choose to father children through assisted reproduction have an increased risk of having a child with cystic fibrosis. If congenital absence of the vas deferens is not caused by mutations in CFTR, the risk of having children with cystic fibrosis is not increased. The risk to siblings of a person with CBAVD depends on the affected person's CFTR gene mutation(s) and cannot readily be predicted without this information. Genetic testing is most informative when the CBAVD-causing mutations have been identified in the affected individual. Men with CBAVD sometimes have only one identifiable CFTR mutation, complicating the testing and interpretation of results in their family members. We recommend speaking with a genetics professional about risk to other family members as well as any appropriate genetic testing."
1323,What are the treatments for X-linked juvenile retinoschisis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of X-linked juvenile retinoschisis:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: X-Linked Juvenile Retinoschisis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Juvenile retinoschisis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1324,What is (are) Glanzmann thrombasthenia ?,"Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a bleeding disorder that is characterized by prolonged or spontaneous bleeding starting from birth. People with Glanzmann thrombasthenia tend to bruise easily, have frequent nosebleeds (epistaxis), and may bleed from the gums. They may also develop red or purple spots on the skin caused by bleeding underneath the skin (petechiae) or swelling caused by bleeding within tissues (hematoma). Glanzmann thrombasthenia can also cause prolonged bleeding following injury, trauma, or surgery (including dental work). Women with this condition can have prolonged and sometimes abnormally heavy menstrual bleeding. Affected women also have an increased risk of excessive blood loss during pregnancy and childbirth.  About a quarter of individuals with Glanzmann thrombasthenia have bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract, which often occurs later in life. Rarely, affected individuals have bleeding inside the skull (intracranial hemorrhage) or joints (hemarthrosis).  The severity and frequency of the bleeding episodes in Glanzmann thrombasthenia can vary greatly among affected individuals, even in the same family. Spontaneous bleeding tends to become less frequent with age."
1325,What is (are) Bile Duct Cancer (Cholangiocarcinoma) ?,"Key Points
                    - Bile duct cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the bile ducts.     - Having colitis or certain liver diseases can increase the risk of bile duct cancer.    - Signs of bile duct cancer include jaundice and pain in the abdomen.    - Tests that examine the bile ducts and nearby organs are used to detect (find), diagnose, and stage bile duct cancer.    - Different procedures may be used to obtain a sample of tissue and diagnose bile duct cancer.     - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Bile duct cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the bile ducts.
                    A network of tubes, called ducts, connects the liver, gallbladder, and small intestine. This network begins in the liver where many small ducts collect bile (a fluid made by the liver to break down fats during digestion). The small ducts come together to form the right and left hepatic ducts, which lead out of the liver. The two ducts join outside the liver and form the common hepatic duct. The cystic duct connects the gallbladder to the common hepatic duct. Bile from the liver passes through the hepatic ducts, common hepatic duct, and cystic duct and is stored in the gallbladder.    When food is being digested, bile stored in the gallbladder is released and passes through the cystic duct to the common bile duct and into the small intestine.    Bile duct cancer is also called cholangiocarcinoma.   There are two types of bile duct cancer:         -   Intrahepatic bile duct cancer : This type of cancer forms in the bile ducts inside the liver. Only a small number of bile duct cancers are intrahepatic. Intrahepatic bile duct cancers are also called intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas.    -   Extrahepatic bile duct cancer : The extrahepatic bile duct is made up of the hilum region and the distal region. Cancer can form in either region:                - Perihilar bile duct cancer: This type of cancer is found in the hilum region, the area where the right and left bile ducts exit the liver and join to form the common hepatic duct. Perihilar bile duct cancer is also called a Klatskin tumor or perihilar cholangiocarcinoma.      - Distal extrahepatic bile duct cancer: This type of cancer is found in the distal region. The distal region is made up of the common bile duct which passes through the pancreas and ends in the small intestine. Distal extrahepatic bile duct cancer is also called extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma."
1326,What are the symptoms of 18 Hydroxylase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of 18 Hydroxylase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 18 Hydroxylase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Decreased circulating aldosterone level - Dehydration - Episodic fever - Failure to thrive - Feeding difficulties in infancy - Growth delay - Hyperkalemia - Hyponatremia - Hypotension - Increased circulating renin level - Neonatal onset - Renal salt wasting - Vomiting - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1327,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Traumatic Brain Injury ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports TBI research through grants to major medical institutions across the country and conducts TBI research in its intramural laboratories and Clinical Center at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda,Maryland. The Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine (CNRM) is a TBI research collaboration between intramural NIH and the Uniformed Services University for the Health Sciences (USUHS). NINDS-funded research involves studies in the laboratory and in clinical settings to better understand TBI and the biological mechanisms underlying damage to the brain. This research will allow scientists to develop strategies and interventions to limit the primary and secondary brain damage that occurs within days of a head trauma, and to devise therapies to treat brain injury and improve long-term recovery of function.
                
More information about Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Research is available at: http://www.ninds.nih.gov/research/tbi/index.htm
                
More information about CNRM clinical studies is available at: http://cnrmstudies.org/"
1328,Is phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1329,How to diagnose SHORT syndrome ?,"How is SHORT syndrome diagnosed? There is no formal criteria for diagnosis yet. The term SHORT syndrome was first created to reflect several of the features of the original reported cases: Short stature, Hyperextensibility, Ocular depression (deeply set eyes), Rieger anomaly, and Teething delay. However, it is now recognized that all of these five features are neither required to make the diagnosis nor necessarily the most specific features of SHORT syndrome. The features most consistently observed in SHORT syndrome include: Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) Short stature Partial lipodystrophy Facial characteristics: Face with triangular shape, prominent forehead, deep-set eyes, nose with a narrow low-hanging tip and thin nasal alae, small chin with a central dimple and large ears that are low-set. Other frequent features include: Axenfeld-Rieger anomaly or related eye anomalies Delayed dentition Diabetes. In general, the facial features allow to make a suspicion of the diagnosis. Diagnosis is confirmed with the genetic testing showing a mutation in the PIK3R1 gene."
1330,How to prevent Hearing Loss ?,"Causes of Hearing Loss Hearing loss happens for many reasons. Some people lose their hearing slowly as they age. This condition is called presbycusis. Doctors do not know why presbycusis happens, but it seems to run in families. Another cause is the ear infection otitis media, which can lead to long-term hearing loss if it is not treated. Hearing loss can also result from taking certain medications. ""Ototoxic"" medications damage the inner ear, sometimes permanently. Some antibiotics are ototoxic. Even aspirin at some dosages can cause problems, but they are temporary. Check with your doctor if you notice a problem while taking a medication. Heredity can cause hearing loss, but not all inherited forms of hearing loss take place at birth. Some forms can show up later in life. In otosclerosis, which is thought to be a hereditary disease, an abnormal growth of bone prevents structures within the ear from working properly. A severe blow to the head also can cause hearing loss. Loud Noise Can Cause Hearing Loss One of the most common causes of hearing loss is loud noise. Loud noise can permanently damage the inner ear. Loud noise also contributes to tinnitus, which is a ringing, roaring, clicking, hissing, or buzzing sound in the ears. Approximately 15 percent (26 million) of Americans between the ages of 20 and 69 have high frequency hearing loss due to exposure to loud sounds or noise at work or in leisure activities. Avoiding Noise-Induced Hearing Loss Noise-induced hearing loss is 100 percent preventable. You can protect your hearing by avoiding noises at or above 85 decibels in loudness, which can damage your inner ear. These include gas lawnmowers, snowblowers, motorcycles, firecrackers, and loud music. Lower the volume on personal stereo systems and televisions. When you are involved in a loud activity, wear earplugs or other hearing protective devices. Be sure to protect children's ears too. Although awareness of noise levels is important, you should also be aware of how far away you are from loud noise and how long you are exposed to it. Avoid noises that are too loud (85 decibels and above). Reduce the sound if you can, or wear ear protection if you cannot. Potential damage from noise is caused by the loudness of the sound and the amount of time you are exposed to it. If you experience tinnitus or have trouble hearing after noise exposure, then you have been exposed to too much noise. Other Ways to Prevent Hearing Loss There are other ways to prevent hearing loss. - If earwax blockage is a problem for you, ask you doctor about treatments you can use at home such as mineral oil, baby oil, glycerin, or commercial ear drops to soften earwax.  - If you suspect that you may have a hole in your eardrum, you should consult a doctor before using such products. A hole in the eardrum can result in hearing loss and fluid discharge.   - The ear infection otitis media  is most common in children, but adults can get it, too. You can help prevent upper respiratory infections -- and a resulting ear infection -- by washing your hands frequently.  - Ask your doctor about how to help prevent flu-related ear infections. If you still get an ear infection, see a doctor immediately before it becomes more serious.   - If you take medications, ask your doctor if your medication is ototoxic, or potentially damaging to the ear. Ask if other medications can be used instead. If not, ask if the dosage can be safely reduced. Sometimes it cannot. However, your doctor should help you get the medication you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects.  If earwax blockage is a problem for you, ask you doctor about treatments you can use at home such as mineral oil, baby oil, glycerin, or commercial ear drops to soften earwax. If you suspect that you may have a hole in your eardrum, you should consult a doctor before using such products. A hole in the eardrum can result in hearing loss and fluid discharge. The ear infection otitis media  is most common in children, but adults can get it, too. You can help prevent upper respiratory infections -- and a resulting ear infection -- by washing your hands frequently. Ask your doctor about how to help prevent flu-related ear infections. If you still get an ear infection, see a doctor immediately before it becomes more serious. If you take medications, ask your doctor if your medication is ototoxic, or potentially damaging to the ear. Ask if other medications can be used instead. If not, ask if the dosage can be safely reduced. Sometimes it cannot. However, your doctor should help you get the medication you need while trying to reduce unwanted side effects."
1331,How many people are affected by Cant syndrome ?,Cant syndrome is a rare condition. About three dozen affected individuals have been reported in the medical literature.
1332,Is Mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes inherited ?,"How is mitochondrial encephalomyopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) inherited? MELAS is caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and is therefore transmitted by maternal inheritance (also called mitochondrial inheritance). This type of inheritance applies to all conditions caused by genes in mtDNA. Mitochondria are structures in each cell that turn molecules into energy, and each contain a small amount of DNA. Only egg cells (not sperm cells) contribute mitochondria to offspring, so only females can pass on mitochondrial mutations to their children. Conditions resulting from mutations in mtDNA can appear in every generation of a family and can affect both males and females. In most cases, people with MELAS inherit an altered mitochondrial gene from their mother. Less commonly, the condition results from a new mutation in a mitochondrial gene and occurs in an individual with no history of MELAS in the family."
1333,What are the genetic changes related to Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ?,"Mutations in the GLI3 gene cause Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome. The GLI3 gene provides instructions for making a protein that controls gene expression, which is a process that regulates whether genes are turned on or off in particular cells. By interacting with certain genes at specific times during development, the GLI3 protein plays a role in the normal shaping (patterning) of many organs and tissues before birth.  Different genetic changes involving the GLI3 gene can cause Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome. In some cases, the condition results from a chromosomal abnormalitysuch as a large deletion or rearrangement of genetic materialin the region of chromosome 7 that contains the GLI3 gene. In other cases, a mutation in the GLI3 gene itself is responsible for the disorder. Each of these genetic changes prevents one copy of the gene in each cell from producing any functional protein. It remains unclear how a reduced amount of this protein disrupts early development and causes the characteristic features of Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome."
1334,What is (are) Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes ?,"Autonomic neuropathy affects the nerves that control the heart, regulate blood pressure, and control blood glucose levels. Autonomic neuropathy also affects other internal organs, causing problems with digestion, respiratory function, urination, sexual response, and vision. In addition, the system that restores blood glucose levels to normal after a hypoglycemic episode may be affected, resulting in loss of the warning symptoms of hypoglycemia.
                
Hypoglycemia Unawareness
                
Normally, symptoms such as shakiness, sweating, and palpitations occur when blood glucose levels drop below 70 mg/dL. In people with autonomic neuropathy, symptoms may not occur, making hypoglycemia difficult to recognize. Problems other than neuropathy can also cause hypoglycemia unawareness.
                
Heart and Blood Vessels
                
The heart and blood vessels are part of the cardiovascular system, which controls blood circulation. Damage to nerves in the cardiovascular system interferes with the body's ability to adjust blood pressure and heart rate. As a result, blood pressure may drop sharply after sitting or standing, causing a person to feel light-headed or even to faint. Damage to the nerves that control heart rate can mean that the heart rate stays high, instead of rising and falling in response to normal body functions and physical activity.
                
Digestive System
                
Nerve damage to the digestive system most commonly causes constipation. Damage can also cause the stomach to empty too slowly, a condition called gastroparesis. Severe gastroparesis can lead to persistent nausea and vomiting, bloating, and loss of appetite. Gastroparesis can also make blood glucose levels fluctuate widely, due to abnormal food digestion.
                
Nerve damage to the esophagus may make swallowing difficult, while nerve damage to the bowels can cause constipation alternating with frequent, uncontrolled diarrhea, especially at night. Problems with the digestive system can lead to weight loss.
                
Urinary Tract and Sex Organs
                
Autonomic neuropathy often affects the organs that control urination and sexual function. Nerve damage can prevent the bladder from emptying completely, allowing bacteria to grow in the bladder and kidneys and causing urinary tract infections. When the nerves of the bladder are damaged, urinary incontinence may result because a person may not be able to sense when the bladder is full or control the muscles that release urine.
                
Autonomic neuropathy can also gradually decrease sexual response in men and women, although the sex drive may be unchanged. A man may be unable to have erections or may reach sexual climax without ejaculating normally. A woman may have difficulty with arousal, lubrication, or orgasm.
                
Sweat Glands
                
Autonomic neuropathy can affect the nerves that control sweating. When nerve damage prevents the sweat glands from working properly, the body cannot regulate its temperature as it should. Nerve damage can also cause profuse sweating at night or while eating.
                
Eyes
                
Finally, autonomic neuropathy can affect the pupils of the eyes, making them less responsive to changes in light. As a result, a person may not be able to see well when a light is turned on in a dark room or may have trouble driving at night."
1335,What is (are) sporadic hemiplegic migraine ?,"Sporadic hemiplegic migraine is a rare form of migraine headache. Migraines typically cause intense, throbbing pain in one area of the head. Some people with migraines also experience nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to light and sound. These recurrent headaches typically begin in childhood or adolescence and can be triggered by certain foods, emotional stress, and minor head trauma. Each headache may last from a few hours to a few days.  In sporadic hemiplegic migraine and some other types of migraine, a pattern of neurological symptoms called an aura occurs before onset of the headache. An aura commonly includes temporary visual changes such as blind spots (scotomas), flashing lights, zig-zagging lines, and double vision. In people with sporadic hemiplegic migraine, auras are also characterized by temporary numbness or weakness, often affecting one side of the body (hemiparesis). Additional features of an aura can include difficulty with speech, confusion, and drowsiness. An aura typically develops gradually over a few minutes and lasts about an hour.  Some people with sporadic hemiplegic migraine experience unusually severe migraine episodes. These episodes can include fever, prolonged weakness, seizures, and coma. Although most people with sporadic hemiplegic migraine recover completely between episodes, neurological symptoms such as memory loss and problems with attention can last for weeks or months. Some affected individuals develop mild but permanent difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia), which may worsen with time, and rapid, involuntary eye movements called nystagmus. Mild to severe intellectual disability has been reported in some people with sporadic hemiplegic migraine."
1336,Do you have information about Molds,"Summary : Molds are fungi that can be found both outdoors and indoors. They grow best in warm, damp and humid conditions. If you have damp or wet spots in your house, you will probably get mold.    Molds can cause health problems. Inhaling or touching mold or mold spores may cause allergic reactions or asthma attacks in sensitive people. Molds can cause fungal infections. In addition, mold exposure may irritate your eyes, skin, nose, throat, and lungs.     Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
1337,Is oculofaciocardiodental syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked dominant pattern. The gene associated with this condition is located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation in one of the two copies of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Some cells produce a normal amount of BCL6 corepressor protein and other cells produce none. The resulting overall reduction in the amount of this protein leads to the signs and symptoms of OFCD syndrome.  In males (who have only one X chromosome), mutations result in a total loss of the BCL6 corepressor protein. A lack of this protein appears to be lethal very early in development, so no males are born with OFCD syndrome."
1338,What are the symptoms of Narcolepsy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Narcolepsy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Narcolepsy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hallucinations 90% Memory impairment 90% Muscle weakness 90% Reduced consciousness/confusion 90% Sleep disturbance 90% Abnormality of eye movement 50% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Obesity 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% Abnormal rapid eye movement (REM) sleep - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cataplexy - Excessive daytime sleepiness - Heterogeneous - Hypnagogic hallucinations - Hypnopompic hallucinations - Narcolepsy - Paroxysmal drowsiness - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1339,How many people are affected by Dubin-Johnson syndrome ?,"Although Dubin-Johnson syndrome occurs in people of all ethnic backgrounds, it is more common among Iranian and Moroccan Jews living in Israel. Studies suggest that this disorder affects 1 in 1,300 Iranian Jews in Israel. Additionally, several people in the Japanese population have been diagnosed with Dubin-Johnson syndrome. This condition appears to be less common in other countries."
1340,"What is (are) TK2-related mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, myopathic form ?","TK2-related mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome, myopathic form (TK2-MDS) is an inherited condition that causes progressive muscle weakness (myopathy).  The signs and symptoms of TK2-MDS typically begin in early childhood. Development is usually normal early in life, but as muscle weakness progresses, people with TK2-MDS lose motor skills such as standing, walking, eating, and talking. Some affected individuals have increasing weakness in the muscles that control eye movement, leading to droopy eyelids (progressive external ophthalmoplegia).  Most often in TK2-MDS, the muscles are the only affected tissues; however, the liver may be enlarged (hepatomegaly), seizures can occur, and hearing loss caused by nerve damage in the inner ear (sensorineural hearing loss) may be present. Intelligence is usually not affected.  As the disorder worsens, the muscles that control breathing become weakened and affected individuals frequently have to rely on mechanical ventilation. Respiratory failure is the most common cause of death in people with TK2-MDS, often occurring in childhood. Rarely, the disorder progresses slowly and affected individuals survive into adolescence or adulthood."
1341,Is Erythropoietic protoporphyria inherited ?,"How is erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) inherited? EPP is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. In most cases, affected individuals have one severe (loss-of-function) mutation that is inherited from one parent, and another weak (low-expression) mutation that is inherited from the other parent. In a small number of cases, an affected individual has two loss-of-function mutations. When 2 carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a: 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected 50% (1 in 2) chance to be an unaffected carrier like each parent 25% (1 in 4) chance to be unaffected and not be a carrier"
1342,Is Hailey-Hailey disease inherited ?,"How is Hailey-Hailey disease inherited? Hailey-Hailey disease is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is enough to cause signs or symptoms of the condition. Some people with Hailey-Hailey disease inherit the condition from an affected parent. Other cases are due to a new mutation in the gene and occur in people with no history of the condition in their family. When a person with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene."
1343,"What are the symptoms of Stickler syndrome, type 2 ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Stickler syndrome, type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Stickler syndrome, type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the vitreous humor 90% Cataract 90% Myopia 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Retinal detachment 90% Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Cleft palate 50% Retinopathy 50% Anteverted nares - Arachnodactyly - Arthropathy - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bifid uvula - Depressed nasal bridge - Flat midface - Glaucoma - Joint hypermobility - Long fingers - Malar flattening - Pierre-Robin sequence - Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1344,Is Weaver syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In a small number of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent."
1345,How many people are affected by Fabry disease ?,"Fabry disease affects an estimated 1 in 40,000 to 60,000 males. This disorder also occurs in females, although the prevalence is unknown. Milder, late-onset forms of the disorder are probably more common than the classic, severe form."
1346,"Is intrauterine growth restriction, metaphyseal dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenita, and genital anomalies inherited ?","The inheritance of IMAGe syndrome is complex. The condition is described as having an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern because one copy of the altered CDKN1C gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. However, because this gene is paternally imprinted, IMAGe syndrome results only when the mutation is present on the maternally inherited copy of the gene. When a mutation affects the paternally inherited copy of the CDKN1C gene, it does not cause health problems. Therefore, IMAGe syndrome is passed only from mothers to their children."
1347,What are the treatments for Prevent diabetes problems: Keep your eyes healthy ?,"You can help your diabetes retina problems by controlling your
                
- blood glucose  - blood pressure  - cholesterol and triglycerides, or types of blood fat
                
If your retinopathy still does not improve, then you may need other treatments. You will need to see an ophthalmologist who can decide whether you need one of these treatments:
                
- Medicines. Your doctor treats macular edema with injections of medicines into the eye. These medicines block a protein in the body that causes abnormal blood vessel growth and fluid leakage. Reducing the fluid leakage often allows the retina to return to normal thickness. The ophthalmologist will numb your eye and then insert a tiny needle to deliver the medicine.  - Laser treatment. Your doctor can also treat macular edema with focal laser treatment. In one visit, the ophthalmologist will numb your eye and place many small laser burns in the areas leaking fluid near the macula. These burns slow the leakage of fluid and reduce the amount of fluid in your retina.  Sometimes your doctor also treats diabetic retinopathy with scatter laser treatment. In two or more visits, the ophthalmologist will numb your eye and place thousands of laser burns around the new, weak blood vessels away from the macula, causing them to shrink.  Laser treatment can greatly reduce your chances of blindness from retina damage. However, laser treatment often cannot restore vision that has already been lost.  Treatment with medicines or lasers can be performed in your ophthalmologists office.  - Vitrectomy. If the bleeding in your eye is severe, you may need to go to the hospital for a surgery called a vitrectomy. Your ophthalmologist will numb your eye or give you general anesthesia to help you fall asleep. The ophthalmologist will make a tiny cut in your eye and remove the vitreous gel that is clouded with blood. The ophthalmologist replaces the vitreous gel with a salt solution."
1348,What is (are) spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita ?,"Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita is an inherited bone growth disorder that results in short stature (dwarfism), skeletal abnormalities, and problems with vision and hearing. This condition affects the bones of the spine (spondylo-) and the ends (epiphyses) of long bones in the arms and legs. Congenita indicates that the condition is present from birth.  People with spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita have short stature from birth, with a very short trunk and neck and shortened limbs. Their hands and feet, however, are usually average-sized. Adult height ranges from 3 feet to just over 4 feet. Abnormal curvature of the spine (kyphoscoliosis and lordosis) becomes more severe during childhood. Instability of the spinal bones (vertebrae) in the neck may increase the risk of spinal cord damage. Other skeletal features include flattened vertebrae (platyspondyly); an abnormality of the hip joint that causes the upper leg bones to turn inward (coxa vara); a foot deformity called a clubfoot; and a broad, barrel-shaped chest. Abnormal development of the chest can cause problems with breathing. Arthritis and decreased joint mobility often develop early in life.  People with spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita have mild changes in their facial features. The cheekbones close to the nose may appear flattened. Some infants are born with an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate). Severe nearsightedness (high myopia) is common, as are other eye problems that can impair vision. About one quarter of people with this condition have hearing loss."
1349,How many people are affected by renal tubular acidosis with deafness ?,Renal tubular acidosis with deafness is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown.
1350,Is prion disease inherited ?,"Familial forms of prion disease are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered PRNP gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most cases, an affected person inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. In some people, familial forms of prion disease are caused by a new mutation in the gene that occurs during the formation of a parent's reproductive cells (eggs or sperm) or in early embryonic development. Although such people do not have an affected parent, they can pass the genetic change to their children.  The sporadic, acquired, and iatrogenic forms of prion disease, including kuru and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, are not inherited."
1351,What are the treatments for Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Emery-Dreifuss Muscular Dystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy 1, X-linked  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Arrhythmias  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Contracture deformity  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Muscular dystrophy   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1352,What is (are) factor XIII deficiency ?,"Factor XIII deficiency is a rare bleeding disorder. Researchers have identified an inherited form and a less severe form that is acquired during a person's lifetime.  Signs and symptoms of inherited factor XIII deficiency begin soon after birth, usually with abnormal bleeding from the umbilical cord stump. If the condition is not treated, affected individuals may have episodes of excessive and prolonged bleeding that can be life-threatening. Abnormal bleeding can occur after surgery or minor trauma. The condition can also cause spontaneous bleeding into the joints or muscles, leading to pain and disability. Women with inherited factor XIII deficiency tend to have heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding (menorrhagia) and may experience recurrent pregnancy losses (miscarriages). Other signs and symptoms of inherited factor XIII deficiency include nosebleeds, bleeding of the gums, easy bruising, problems with wound healing, and abnormal scar formation. Inherited factor XIII deficiency also increases the risk of spontaneous bleeding inside the skull (intracranial hemorrhage), which is the leading cause of death in people with this condition.  Acquired factor XIII deficiency becomes apparent later in life. People with the acquired form are less likely to have severe or life-threatening episodes of abnormal bleeding than those with the inherited form."
1353,What are the genetic changes related to tibial muscular dystrophy ?,"Mutations in the TTN gene cause tibial muscular dystrophy. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called titin. Titin plays an important role in muscles the body uses for movement (skeletal muscles) and in heart (cardiac) muscle.  Within muscle cells, titin is an essential component of structures called sarcomeres. Sarcomeres are the basic units of muscle contraction; they are made of proteins that generate the mechanical force needed for muscles to contract. Titin has several functions within sarcomeres. One of its most important jobs is to provide structure, flexibility, and stability to these cell structures. Titin also plays a role in chemical signaling and in assembling new sarcomeres.  Mutations in the TTN gene alter the structure and function of titin. Researchers suspect that these changes may disrupt titin's interactions with other proteins within sarcomeres. Mutations may also interfere with the protein's role in chemical signaling. The altered titin protein disrupts normal muscle contraction, which causes muscles to weaken and waste away over time. It is unclear why these effects are usually limited to muscles in the lower legs."
1354,What are the symptoms of Pineal cyst ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of pineal cysts? People with pineal cysts generally do not have any signs or symptoms. Occasionally, pineal cysts may cause headaches, hydrocephalus, disturbances in vision (gaze palsy), Parinaud syndrome, and vertigo, in which case they are called symptomatic pineal cysts. Although rare, people with symptomatic pineal cysts may have other symptoms such as difficulty moving (ataxia); mental and emotional disturbances; seizures; sleep (circadian rhythm) troubles; hormonal imbalances that may cause precocious puberty; or secondary parkinsonism."
1355,How many people are affected by metachromatic leukodystrophy ?,"Metachromatic leukodystrophy is reported to occur in 1 in 40,000 to 160,000 individuals worldwide. The condition is more common in certain genetically isolated populations: 1 in 75 in a small group of Jews who immigrated to Israel from southern Arabia (Habbanites), 1 in 2,500 in the western portion of the Navajo Nation, and 1 in 8,000 among Arab groups in Israel."
1356,What is (are) Freiberg's disease ?,"Freiberg's disease is rare condition that primarily affects the second or third metatarsal (the long bones of the foot). Although people of all ages can be affected by this condition, Freiberg's disease is most commonly diagnosed during adolescence through the second decade of life. Common signs and symptoms include pain and stiffness in the front of the foot, which often leads to a limp. Affected people may also experience swelling, limited range of motion, and tenderness of the affected foot. Symptoms are generally triggered by weight-bearing activities, including walking. The exact underlying cause of Freiberg's disease is currently unknown. Treatment depends on many factors, including the severity of condition; the signs and symptoms present; and the age of the patient."
1357,What is (are) Thanatophoric dysplasia ?,"Thanatophoric dysplasia is a severe skeletal disorder characterized by extremely short limbs and folds of extra skin on the arms and legs. Other features of this condition include a narrow chest, short ribs, underdeveloped lungs, and an enlarged head with a large forehead and prominent, wide-spaced eyes. Most infants with thanatophoric dysplasia are stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure. A few affected individuals have survived into childhood with extensive medical help. Thanatophoric dysplasia is caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene. While this condition is considered to be autosomal dominant, virtually all cases have occurred in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Two major forms of thanatophoric dysplasia have been described, type I and type II. Type I thanatophoric dysplasia is distinguished by the presence of curved thigh bones and flattened bones of the spine (platyspondyly). Type II thanatophoric dysplasia is characterized by straight thigh bones and a moderate to severe skull abnormality called a cloverleaf skull."
1358,What causes Langerhans cell histiocytosis ?,What causes Langerhans cell histiocytosis? The cause of Langerhans cell histiocytosis is unknown. It may be triggered by an unusual reaction of the immune system to something commonly found in the environment. It is not considered to be an infection or cancer. It is not known to be hereditary or communicable.
1359,What is (are) Endometriosis ?,"Endometriosis is a problem affecting a woman's uterus - the place where a baby grows when she's pregnant. Endometriosis is when the kind of tissue that normally lines the uterus grows somewhere else. It can grow on the ovaries, behind the uterus or on the bowels or bladder. Rarely, it grows in other parts of the body.     This ""misplaced"" tissue can cause pain, infertility, and very heavy periods. The pain is usually in the abdomen, lower back or pelvic areas. Some women have no symptoms at all. Having trouble getting pregnant may be the first sign.     The cause of endometriosis is not known. Pain medicines and hormones often help. Severe cases may need surgery. There are also treatments to improve fertility in women with endometriosis."
1360,What are the symptoms of Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - IgA deficiency - IgG deficiency - Immunodeficiency - Impaired Ig class switch recombination - Lymphadenopathy - Recurrent bacterial infections - Recurrent infection of the gastrointestinal tract - Recurrent respiratory infections - Recurrent upper and lower respiratory tract infections - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1361,What causes Peyronie's Disease ?,"Medical experts do not know the exact cause of Peyronies disease. Many believe that Peyronies disease may be the result of
                
- acute injury to the penis  - chronic, or repeated, injury to the penis  - autoimmune diseasea disorder in which the bodys immune system attacks the bodys own cells and organs
                
Injury to the Penis
                
Medical experts believe that hitting or bending the penis may injure the tissues inside. A man may injure the penis during sex, athletic activity, or an accident. Injury ruptures blood vessels, which leads to bleeding and swelling inside the layers of the tunica albuginea. Swelling inside the penis will block blood flow through the layers of tissue inside the penis. When the blood cant flow normally, clots can form and trap immune system cells. As the injury heals, the immune system cells may release substances that lead to the formation of too much scar tissue. The scar tissue builds up and forms a plaque inside the penis. The plaque reduces the elasticity of tissues and flexibility of the penis during erection, leading to curvature. The plaque may further harden because of calcificationthe process in which calcium builds up in body tissue.
                
Autoimmune Disease
                
Some medical experts believe that Peyronies disease may be part of an autoimmune disease. Normally, the immune system is the bodys way of protecting itself from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. Men who have autoimmune diseases may develop Peyronies disease when the immune system attacks cells in the penis. This can lead to inflammation in the penis and can cause scarring. Medical experts do not know what causes autoimmune diseases. Some of the autoimmune diseases associated with Peyronies disease affect connective tissues. Connective tissue is specialized tissue that supports, joins, or separates different types of tissues and organs of the body."
1362,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Batten Disease ?,"The biochemical defects that underlie several NCLs have recently been discovered. An enzyme called palmitoyl-protein thioesterase has been shown to be insufficiently active in the infantile form of Batten disease (this condition is now referred to as CLN1). In the late infantile form (CLN2), a deficiency of an acid protease, an enzyme that hydrolyzes proteins, has been found as the cause of this condition. A mutated gene has been identified in juvenile Batten disease (CLN3), but the protein for which this gene codes has not been identified. In addition, research scientists are working with NCL animal models to improve understanding and treatment of these disorders. One research team, for example, is testing the usefulness of bone marrow transplantation in a sheep model, while other investigators are working to develop mouse models. Mouse models will make it easier for scientists to study the genetics of these diseases."
1363,What are the symptoms of Pseudoachondroplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pseudoachondroplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pseudoachondroplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Delayed skeletal maturation 90% Micromelia 90% Arthralgia 50% Gait disturbance 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Osteoarthritis 50% Platyspondyly 50% Scoliosis 50% Short toe 50% Genu valgum 7.5% Genu varum 7.5% Hypoplasia of the odontoid process 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Atlantoaxial dislocation - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Beaking of vertebral bodies - Carpal bone hypoplasia - Cervical cord compression - Childhood onset short-limb short stature - Degenerative joint disease - Delayed epiphyseal ossification - Disproportionate short-limb short stature - Flared femoral metaphysis - Fragmented epiphyses - Fragmented, irregular epiphyses - Genu recurvatum - Irregular carpal bones - Joint laxity - Ligamentous laxity - Limited elbow extension - Limited hip extension - Lumbar hyperlordosis - Radial metaphyseal irregularity - Sensory neuropathy - Short distal phalanx of finger - Short long bone - Short metacarpal - Small epiphyses of the phalanges of the hand - Spatulate ribs - Ulnar deviation of the hand - Ulnar deviation of the wrist - Ulnar metaphyseal irregularity - Waddling gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common. What are the features of pseudoachondroplasia? All individuals with pseudoachondroplasia have short stature. While affected individuals are typically of normal length at birth, their growth rate tends to fall below the standard growth curve by age two. The average height of an adult male is 3 feet, 11 inches and the average height of an adult female is 3 feet, 9 inches. Other features of pseudoachondroplasia include short arms and legs, a waddling walk, early-onset joint pain (osteoarthritis), and a limited range of motion at the elbows and hips. Some individuals develop abnormal curvatures of the spine (scoliosis and/or lordosis) during childhood. People with pseudoachondroplasia have normal facial features, head size, and intelligence."
1364,What are the treatments for congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, congenital   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1365,How to diagnose Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) ?,"Diagnostic Challenges
  
For doctors, diagnosing chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) can be complicated by a number of factors:
  
   - There's no lab test or biomarker for CFS.
   - Fatigue and other symptoms of CFS are common to many illnesses.
   - For some CFS patients, it may not be obvious to doctors that they are ill.
   - The illness has a pattern of remission and relapse.
   - Symptoms vary from person to person in type, number, and severity.
  
  
These factors have contributed to a low diagnosis rate. Of the one to four million Americans who have CFS, less than 20% have been diagnosed.
  Exams and Screening Tests for CFS
  
Because there is no blood test, brain scan, or other lab test to diagnose CFS, the doctor should first rule out other possible causes.
  
If a patient has had 6 or more consecutive months of severe fatigue that is reported to be unrelieved by sufficient bed rest and that is accompanied by nonspecific symptoms, including flu-like symptoms, generalized pain, and memory problems, the doctor should consider the possibility that the patient may have CFS. Further exams and tests are needed before a diagnosis can be made:
  
   - A detailed medical history will be needed and should include a review of medications that could be causing the fatigue and symptoms
   - A thorough physical and mental status examination will also be needed
   - A battery of laboratory screening tests will be needed to help identify or rule out other possible causes of the symptoms that could be treated
   - The doctor may also order additional tests to follow up on results of the initial screening tests
  
  
A CFS diagnosis requires that the patient has been fatigued for 6 months or more and has 4 of the 8 symptoms for CFS for 6 months or more. If, however, the patient has been fatigued for 6 months or more but does not have four of the eight symptoms, the diagnosis may be idiopathic fatigue.
  
The complete process for diagnosing CFS can be found here.
  
Additional information for healthcare professionals on use of tests can be found here."
1366,Do you have information about Immunization,"Summary : Shots may hurt a little, but the diseases they can prevent are a lot worse. Some are even life-threatening. Immunization shots, or vaccinations, are essential. They protect against things like measles, mumps, rubella, hepatitis B, polio, tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). Immunizations are important for adults as well as children.    Your immune system helps your body fight germs by producing substances to combat them. Once it does, the immune system ""remembers"" the germ and can fight it again. Vaccines contain germs that have been killed or weakened. When given to a healthy person, the vaccine triggers the immune system to respond and thus build immunity.     Before vaccines, people became immune only by actually getting a disease and surviving it. Immunizations are an easier and less risky way to become immune.     NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
1367,What are the genetic changes related to paramyotonia congenita ?,"Mutations in the SCN4A gene cause paramyotonia congenita. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is critical for the normal function of skeletal muscle cells. For the body to move normally, skeletal muscles must tense (contract) and relax in a coordinated way. Muscle contractions are triggered by the flow of positively charged atoms (ions), including sodium, into skeletal muscle cells. The SCN4A protein forms channels that control the flow of sodium ions into these cells.  Mutations in the SCN4A gene alter the usual structure and function of sodium channels. The altered channels cannot effectively regulate the flow of sodium ions into skeletal muscle cells. The resulting increase in ion flow interferes with normal muscle contraction and relaxation, leading to episodes of muscle stiffness and weakness."
1368,What is (are) Mitochondrial genetic disorders ?,"Mitochondrial genetic disorders refer to a group of conditions that affect the mitochondria (the structures in each cell of the body that are responsible for making energy). People with these conditions can present at any age with almost any affected body system; however, the brain, muscles, heart, liver, nerves, eyes, ears and kidneys are the organs and tissues most commonly affected. Symptom severity can also vary widely. Mitochondrial genetic disorders can be caused by changes (mutations) in either the mitochondrial DNA or nuclear DNA that lead to dysfunction of the mitochondria and inadequate production of energy. Those caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA are transmitted by maternal inheritance, while those caused by mutations in nuclear DNA may follow an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked pattern of inheritance. Treatment varies based on the specific type of condition and the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1369,What to do for Smoking and the Digestive System ?,"- Smoking has been found to increase the risk of cancers of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, and pancreas. Research suggests that smoking may also increase the risk of cancers of the liver, colon, and rectum.  - Smoking increases the risk of heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).  - Smoking increases the risk of peptic ulcers.  - Smoking may worsen some liver diseases, including primary biliary cirrhosis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).  - Current and former smokers have a higher risk of developing Crohns disease than people who have never smoked.  - People who smoke are more likely to develop colon polyps.  - Smoking increases the risk of developing pancreatitis.  - Some studies have shown that smoking may increase the risk of developing gallstones. However, research results are not consistent and more study is needed.  - Quitting smoking can reverse some of the effects of smoking on the digestive system."
1370,What are the genetic changes related to GRACILE syndrome ?,"GRACILE syndrome is caused by a mutation in the BCS1L gene. The protein produced from this gene is found in cell structures called mitochondria, which convert the energy from food into a form that cells can use. In mitochondria, the BCS1L protein plays a role in oxidative phosphorylation, which is a multistep process through which cells derive much of their energy. The BCS1L protein is critical for the formation of a group of proteins known as complex III, which is one of several protein complexes involved in oxidative phosphorylation.  The genetic change involved in GRACILE syndrome alters the BCS1L protein, and the abnormal protein is broken down more quickly than the normal protein. What little protein remains is able to help form some complete complex III, although the amount is severely reduced, particularly in the liver and kidneys. As a result, complex III activity and oxidative phosphorylation are decreased in these organs in people with GRACILE syndrome. Without energy, these organs become damaged, leading to many of the features of GRACILE syndrome. It is not clear why a change in the BCS1L gene leads to iron accumulation in people with this condition."
1371,What are the symptoms of Familial joint instability syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Familial joint instability syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial joint instability syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Patellar dislocation 90% Abnormality of the elbow 7.5% Abnormality of the femur 7.5% Abnormality of the shoulder 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Congenital hip dislocation - Joint laxity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1372,What are the treatments for Hypersomnia ?,"Treatment is symptomatic in nature. Stimulants, such as amphetamine, methylphenidate, and modafinil, may be prescribed. Other drugs used to treat hypersomnia include clonidine, levodopa, bromocriptine, antidepressants, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors. Changes in behavior (for example avoiding night work and social activities that delay bed time) and diet may offer some relief. Patients should avoid alcohol and caffeine."
1373,What are the symptoms of Idiopathic basal ganglia calcification childhood-onset ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Idiopathic basal ganglia calcification childhood-onset? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Idiopathic basal ganglia calcification childhood-onset. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of extrapyramidal motor function - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Basal ganglia calcification - Calcification of the small brain vessels - Decreased body weight - Dense calcifications in the cerebellar dentate nucleus - Dolichocephaly - Dysarthria - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability, progressive - Intellectual disability, severe - Limb joint contracture - Microcephaly - Seizures - Short stature - Spasticity - Tetraplegia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1374,What are the treatments for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Progeria   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1375,How to diagnose Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer ?,"Tests that examine the sinuses and nasal cavity are used to detect (find) and diagnose paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -  Physical exam of the nose, face, and neck: An exam in which the doctor looks into the nose with a small, long-handled mirror to check for abnormal areas and checks the face and neck for lumps or swollen lymph nodes.    -   X-rays of the head and neck: An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer. There are three types of biopsy:               -  Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy : The removal of tissue or fluid using a thin needle.      -  Incisional biopsy : The removal of part of an area of tissue that doesnt look normal.       -  Excisional biopsy : The removal of an entire area of tissue that doesnt look normal.             -   Nasoscopy : A procedure to look inside the nose for abnormal areas. A nasoscope is inserted into the nose. A nasoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing. A special tool on the nasoscope may be used to remove samples of tissue. The tissues samples are viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer.    -   Laryngoscopy : A procedure to look at the larynx (voice box) for abnormal areas. A mirror or a laryngoscope (a thin, tube-like instrument with a light and a lens for viewing) is inserted through the mouth to see the larynx. A special tool on the laryngoscope may be used to remove samples of tissue. The tissue samples are viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer."
1376,What is (are) Brain Tumors ?,"A brain tumor is a growth of abnormal cells in the tissues of the brain. Brain tumors can be benign, with no cancer cells, or malignant, with cancer cells that grow quickly. Some are primary brain tumors, which start in the brain. Others are metastatic, and they start somewhere else in the body and move to the brain.    Brain tumors can cause many symptoms. Some of the most common are       - Headaches, often in the morning     - Nausea and vomiting    - Changes in your ability to talk, hear, or see    - Problems with balance or walking    - Problems with thinking or memory     - Feeling weak or sleepy    - Changes in your mood or behavior    - Seizures       Doctors diagnose brain tumors by doing a neurologic exam and tests including an MRI, CT scan, and biopsy. Treatment options include watchful waiting, surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Targeted therapy uses substances that attack cancer cells without harming normal cells. Many people get a combination of treatments.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
1377,What to do for Urine Blockage in Newborns ?,"Researchers have not found that a mothers eating, diet, and nutrition play a role in causing or preventing urine blockage in newborns."
1378,What causes Diabetic mastopathy ?,"What causes diabetic mastopathy? The cause of diabetic mastopathy is unknown. Theories include an autoimmune reaction, genetic factors such as human leukocyte antigen (HLA) type, association with insulin therapy, and association with hyperglycemia."
1379,How to prevent Glaucoma ?,"At this time, we do not know how to prevent glaucoma. However, studies have shown that the early detection and treatment of glaucoma, before it causes major vision loss, is the best way to control the disease. So, if you fall into one of the higher risk groups for the disease, make sure to have a comprehensive dilated eye exam at least once every one to two years.  Get tips on finding an eye care professional. Learn what a comprehensive dilated eye exam involves."
1380,What are the treatments for Lung Cancer ?,"Small cell lung cancer spreads quickly. In many cases, cancer cells have already spread to other parts of the body when the disease is diagnosed, so chemotherapy is usually the best choice. See more on treatments for small cell lung cancer."
1381,What are the symptoms of PAGOD syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of PAGOD syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for PAGOD syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 90% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 50% Abnormality of the testis 50% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 50% Female pseudohermaphroditism 50% Hypoplastic left heart 50% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 50% Omphalocele 50% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 50% Abnormality of neuronal migration 7.5% Abnormality of the aorta 7.5% Abnormality of the clavicle 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Abnormality of the spleen 7.5% Asymmetric growth 7.5% Encephalocele 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Situs inversus totalis 7.5% Sudden cardiac death 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1382,What are the symptoms of Heart Block ?,"Signs and symptoms depend on the type of heart block you have. First-degree heart block may not cause any symptoms.
                
Signs and symptoms of second- and third-degree heart block include:
                
Fainting
                
Dizziness or light-headedness
                
Fatigue (tiredness)
                
Shortness of breath
                
Chest pain
                
These symptoms may suggest other health problems as well. If these symptoms are new or severe, call 911 or have someone drive you to the hospital emergency room. If you have milder symptoms, talk with your doctor right away to find out whether you need prompt treatment."
1383,What are the treatments for autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of ARCA1:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: SYNE1-Related Autosomal Recessive Cerebellar Ataxia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Spinocerebellar ataxia, autosomal recessive 8  - Johns Hopkins Medicine Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery: What is Ataxia?  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Dysarthria--Care   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1384,What causes National Hormone and Pituitary Program (NHPP): Information for People Treated with Pituitary Human Growth Hormone (Comprehensive Report) ?,"We have not found any particular preparation of pituitary hGH that is especially likely to carry CJD. We believe that CJD did not come from a single infected pituitary gland or preparation. Prior to 1977, in an effort to extract as much hormone as possible from the pituitary glands, the glands were often processed repeatedly. Hormone extracted from the same pituitaries was often included in many hormone preparations. Also, patients who got CJD were treated on average for 8.4 years and received many different hormone preparations. This makes it very difficult to identify any preparation associated with transmitting CJD.
                
Doctors wanted to see if a specific preparation of pituitary hGH could transmit CJD. To try to find the pituitary hGH that could have caused CJD, HHS researchers did two things:
                
1. They set up a test in animals, injecting samples of all available preparations of pituitary hGH directly into the brains of monkeys. CJD develops more rapidly if injected into the brain than under the skin, as hGH was used in people. The animals were watched for 10 years. The brains of all animals were examined for signs of CJD. If an animal got sick with CJD, it would help researchers to understand which vials of pituitary hGH were contaminated with the agent that causes CJD.
                
2. They studied people treated with pituitary hGH to see who got CJD and which hormone preparation they might have received based on which preparations were sent to their doctor.
                
Results:
                
- The animal tests did not help find the pituitary hGH that might have caused CJD. One animal developed the disease 5 years after injection of pituitary hGH. Two other animals that received injections from different vials of the same pituitary hGH preparation did not develop CJD.  - None of the people who developed CJD are known to have received the hormone preparation that made the animal sick. At most, two patients (whose records are incomplete) may have received this pituitary hGH preparation. Because of this, we do not believe that the patients who received the hormone preparation that transmitted CJD to the animal have a greater risk of developing CJD than others treated with pituitary hGH. Because each preparation of pituitary hGH was used to fill multiple vials, it is not known if CJD contamination was spread evenly among all vials of pituitary hGH that came from a particular preparation. It's possible that one vial got more contamination and another got little or none from the same preparation of pituitary hGH. It is believed that multiple preparations of pituitary hGH probably had very low levels of the CJD infectious agent. With such low levels of contamination, some vials of a preparation might carry CJD while other vials would not. Further, most of the people who got CJD received pituitary hGH for long periods of time and received many different preparations."
1385,What is (are) frontometaphyseal dysplasia ?,"Frontometaphyseal dysplasia is a disorder involving abnormalities in skeletal development and other health problems. It is a member of a group of related conditions called otopalatodigital spectrum disorders, which also includes otopalatodigital syndrome type 1, otopalatodigital syndrome type 2, and Melnick-Needles syndrome. In general, these disorders involve hearing loss caused by malformations in the tiny bones in the ears (ossicles), problems in the development of the roof of the mouth (palate), and skeletal abnormalities involving the fingers and/or toes (digits).  Frontometaphyseal dysplasia is distinguished from the other otopalatodigital spectrum disorders by the presence of joint deformities called contractures that restrict the movement of certain joints. People with frontometaphyseal dysplasia may also have bowed limbs, an abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis), and abnormalities of the fingers and hands.  Characteristic facial features may include prominent brow ridges; wide-set and downward-slanting eyes; a very small lower jaw and chin (micrognathia); and small, missing or misaligned teeth. Some affected individuals have hearing loss.  In addition to skeletal abnormalities, individuals with frontometaphyseal dysplasia may have obstruction of the ducts between the kidneys and bladder (ureters), heart defects, or constrictions in the passages leading from the windpipe to the lungs (the bronchi) that can cause problems with breathing.  Males with frontometaphyseal dysplasia generally have more severe signs and symptoms of the disorder than do females, who may show only the characteristic facial features."
1386,What are the symptoms of Peyronie's Disease ?,"The signs and symptoms of Peyronies disease may include
                
- hard lumps on one or more sides of the penis  - pain during sexual intercourse or during an erection  - a curve in the penis either with or without an erection  - narrowing or shortening of the penis  - ED
                
Symptoms of Peyronies disease range from mild to severe. Symptoms may develop slowly or appear quickly. In many cases, the pain decreases over time, although the curve in the penis may remain. In milder cases, symptoms may go away without causing a permanent curve."
1387,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Hypersomnia ?,"The NINDS supports and conducts research on sleep disorders such as hypersomnia. The goal of this research is to increase scientific understanding of the condition, find improved methods of diagnosing and treating it, and discover ways to prevent it."
1388,What are the symptoms of Acanthosis nigricans muscle cramps acral enlargement ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Acanthosis nigricans muscle cramps acral enlargement? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Acanthosis nigricans muscle cramps acral enlargement. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acanthosis nigricans - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Insulin resistance - Muscle cramps - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1389,What are the symptoms of Basilar migraine ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Basilar migraine? Episodes of basilar migraines usually begin with an aura, which is a group of symptoms that serve as a warning sign that a bad headache is coming. Signs and symptoms of an aura vary, but may include: Dizziness and vertigo Disorientation Double vision and other visual changes Tinnitus Loss of balance Confusion Dysarthria Fainting Loss of consciousness These symptoms can last any where from two minutes to over an hour. They are then followed by a throbbing headache which is often along the back of the head and nausea. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Basilar migraine. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aphasia - Apraxia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Blurred vision - Coma - Confusion - Diplopia - Drowsiness - Dysarthria - Dysphasia - Episodic ataxia - Fever - Hemiparesis - Hemiplegia - Incomplete penetrance - Intellectual disability - Migraine with aura - Seizures - Transient unilateral blurring of vision - Vertigo - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common. What are the signs and symptoms of a basilar migraine? Episodes of basilar migraines usually begin with an aura, which is a group of symptoms that serve as a warning sign that a bad headache is coming. Signs and symptoms of an aura vary, but may include: Dizziness and vertigo Disorientation Double vision and other visual changes Tinnitus Loss of balance Confusion Dysarthria Fainting Loss of consciousness These symptoms can last any where from two minutes to over an hour. They are then followed by a throbbing headache which is often along the back of the head and nausea."
1390,What is (are) Kawasaki Disease ?,"Kawasaki (KAH-wah-SAH-ke) disease is a rare childhood disease. It's a form of a condition calledvasculitis(vas-kyu-LI-tis). This condition involves inflammation of the blood vessels.
                
In Kawasaki disease, the walls of the blood vessels throughout the body become inflamed. The disease can affect any type of blood vessel in the body, including the arteries, veins, and capillaries.
                
Sometimes Kawasaki disease affects the coronary arteries, which carry oxygen-rich blood to the heart. As a result, some children who have Kawasaki disease may develop serious heart problems.
                
Overview
                
The cause of Kawasaki disease isn't known. The body's response to a virus or infection combined with genetic factors may cause the disease. However, no specific virus or infection has been found, and the role of genetics isn't known.
                
The disease can't be passed from one child to another. Your child won't get it from close contact with a child who has the disease. Also, if your child has the disease, he or she can't pass it to another child.
                
Kawasaki disease affects children of all races and ages and both genders. It occurs most often in children of Asian and Pacific Island descent. The disease is more likely to affect boys than girls. Most cases occur in children younger than 5years old.
                
One of the main symptoms of Kawasaki disease is a fever that lasts longer than5days. The fever remains high even after treatment with standard childhood fever medicines.
                
Children who have the disease also may have red eyes, red lips, and redness on the palms of their hands and soles of their feet. These are all signs of inflamed blood vessels.
                
Early treatment helps reduce the risk of Kawasaki disease affecting the coronary arteries and causing serious problems.
                
Outlook
                
Kawasaki disease can't be prevented. However, most children who have the disease usually recover within weeks of getting symptoms. Further problems are rare.
                
The disease affects some children's coronary arteries, which can cause serious problems. These children need long-term care and treatment.
                
Researchers continue to look for the cause of Kawasaki disease and better ways to diagnose and treat it. They also hope to learn more about long-term health risks, if any, for people who have had the disease."
1391,What are the symptoms of Leri pleonosteosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Leri pleonosteosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Leri pleonosteosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Genu recurvatum 90% Lack of skin elasticity 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Short stature 90% Thickened skin 90% Upslanted palpebral fissure 90% Abnormally straight spine 50% Blepharophimosis 50% Cubitus valgus 50% Scoliosis 50% Elbow dislocation 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Microcornea 5% Abnormality of the carpal bones - Abnormality of the vertebral column - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Broad metacarpals - Broad thumb - Enlarged interphalangeal joints - Hallux valgus - Joint stiffness - Laryngeal stenosis - Pes cavus - Short metacarpal - Short metatarsal - Short palm - Short stepped shuffling gait - Short thumb - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1392,What is (are) Small Intestine Disorders ?,"Your small intestine is the longest part of your digestive system - about twenty feet long! It connects your stomach to your large intestine (or colon) and folds many times to fit inside your abdomen. Your small intestine does most of the digesting of the foods you eat. It has three areas called the duodenum, the ileum, and the jejunum.    Problems with the small intestine can include:       - Bleeding    - Celiac disease    - Crohn's disease    - Infections    - Intestinal cancer    - Intestinal obstruction    - Irritable bowel syndrome    - Ulcers, such as peptic ulcer       Treatment of disorders of the small intestine depends on the cause."
1393,What is (are) Atherosclerosis ?,"Espaol
                
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body.
                
Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. This limits the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your organs and other parts of your body.
                
Atherosclerosis can lead to serious problems, including heart attack, stroke, or even death.
                
Atherosclerosis
                

                
Atherosclerosis-Related Diseases
                
Atherosclerosis can affect any artery in the body, including arteries in the heart, brain, arms, legs, pelvis, and kidneys. As a result, different diseases may develop based on which arteries are affected.
                
Coronary Heart Disease
                
Coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease, occurs when plaque builds up in the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart.
                
Plaque narrows the coronary arteries and reduces blood flow to your heart muscle. Plaque buildup also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries. Blood clots can partially or completely block blood flow.
                
If blood flow to your heart muscle is reduced or blocked, you may have angina (chest pain or discomfort) or a heart attack.
                
Plaque also can form in the heart's smallest arteries. This disease is called coronary microvascular disease (MVD). In coronary MVD, plaque doesn't cause blockages in the arteries as it does in CHD.
                
Carotid Artery Disease
                
Carotid (ka-ROT-id) artery disease occurs if plaque builds up in the arteries on each side of your neck (the carotid arteries). These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your brain. If blood flow to your brain is reduced or blocked, you may have a stroke.
                
Peripheral Artery Disease
                
Peripheral artery disease (P.A.D.) occurs if plaque builds up in the major arteries that supply oxygen-rich blood to your legs, arms, and pelvis.
                
If blood flow to these parts of your body is reduced or blocked, you may have numbness, pain, and, sometimes, dangerous infections.
                
Chronic Kidney Disease
                
Chronic kidney disease can occur if plaque builds up in the renal arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your kidneys.
                
Over time, chronic kidney disease causes a slow loss of kidney function. The main function of the kidneys is to remove waste and extra water from the body.
                
Overview
                
The cause of atherosclerosis isn't known. However, certain traits, conditions, or habits may raise your risk for the disease. These conditions are known as risk factors.
                
You can control some risk factors, such as lack of physical activity, smoking, and an unhealthy diet. Others you can't control, such as age and a family history of heart disease.
                
Some people who have atherosclerosis have no signs or symptoms. They may not be diagnosed until after a heart attack or stroke.
                
The main treatment for atherosclerosis is lifestyle changes. You also may need medicines and medical procedures. These treatments, along with ongoing medical care, can help you live a healthier life.
                
Outlook
                
Improved treatments have reduced the number of deaths from atherosclerosis-related diseases. These treatments also have improved the quality of life for people who have these diseases. However, atherosclerosis remains a common health problem.
                
You may be able to prevent or delay atherosclerosis and the diseases it can cause. Making lifestyle changes and getting ongoing care can help you avoid the problems of atherosclerosis and live a long, healthy life."
1394,How many people are affected by otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 ?,"Otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 is a rare disorder, affecting fewer than 1 in every 100,000 individuals. Its specific incidence is unknown."
1395,What causes What I need to know about Erectile Dysfunction ?,"To find the cause of your ED, your doctor may
                
- take your medical and sexual history  - ask you questions about your mental health  - give you a physical exam  - test your blood  - give you a nighttime erection test  - perform an injection test  - perform a Doppler penile ultrasound
                
Medical and Sexual History
                
Your doctor will ask general questions about your health, as well as specific questions about your erection problems and your relationship with your sexual partner. Your doctor might ask you questions such as
                
- Have you ever had surgery?  - What medicines do you take?  - How sure are you that you can get and keep an erection?  - When you have erections, how often are they hard enough for sex?  - During sex, how often are you able to keep your erection?  - When you try to have sex, how often are you happy with the sex?  - How would you rate your level of sexual desire?  - How often are you able to reach climax and ejaculate?  - Do you have an erection when you wake up in the morning?  - Do you use illegal drugs, drink alcohol, or smoke?
                
The answers to these questions will help your doctor understand the problem.
                
Bring a list of all the medicines you take, or the actual medicines, to show to your doctor.
                
Mental Health Questions
                
Your doctor may ask you questions about your mental health. For example, the doctor may ask if you feel nervous or depressed. He or she may also ask you to answer questions on paper. The doctor may also ask your sexual partner questions to get more information about the problem.
                
Physical Exam
                
A physical exam can help your doctor find the cause of your ED. As part of the exam, the doctor will examine your testes and penis, take your blood pressure, and check for problems with your blood flow.
                
Blood Tests
                
A blood test involves drawing your blood at a doctors office or a commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. Blood tests can show possible causes of ED, such as diabetes, clogged blood vessels, or chronic kidney disease. Low levels of testosterone in your blood can explain why you may have lost interest in sex.
                
Nighttime Erection Test
                
During a nighttime erection test, you wear a plastic band around your penis to test whether you have nighttime erections. The band easily breaks if your penis expands. This test shows if you had at least one erection during the night. Another test uses an electronic device that can record the number of erections, how long they last, and how firm they are. A man normally has three to five erections during the night while he sleeps. If you do have an erection, it probably means that your ED is more likely a mental health issue. If you do not have these erections, you probably have nerve damage or poor blood flow to your penis. You may do this test in your home or in a special sleep lab.
                
Injection Test
                
During an injection test, the doctor will inject a medicine into your penis to cause an erection. If the erection is not firm or does not last, it may mean you have a problem with blood flow. This test most often takes place in the doctors office.
                
Doppler Penile Ultrasound
                
An x-ray technician most often performs a Doppler penile ultrasound in a doctors office or an outpatient center. During a Doppler penile ultrasound, the x-ray technician or doctor lightly passes a device over your penis to create images of blood vessels in your penis. An injection is used to create an erection. The images can show if you have a blood flow problem. The pictures appear on a computer screen. A radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaginglooks at the images to find possible problems."
1396,What are the symptoms of Congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Congenital generalized lipodystrophy type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acanthosis nigricans - Accelerated skeletal maturation - Acute pancreatitis - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cirrhosis - Clitoromegaly - Congenital onset - Cystic angiomatosis of bone - Decreased fertility - Decreased fertility in females - Decreased serum leptin - Generalized muscular appearance from birth - Hepatic steatosis - Hepatomegaly - Hirsutism - Hyperinsulinemia - Hypertriglyceridemia - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Insulin-resistant diabetes mellitus at puberty - Intellectual disability, mild - Labial hypertrophy - Large hands - Lipodystrophy - Long foot - Mandibular prognathia - Nearly complete absence of metabolically active adipose tissue (subcutaneous, intraabdominal, intrathoracic) - Polycystic ovaries - Polyphagia - Prominent umbilicus - Splenomegaly - Tall stature - Umbilical hernia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1397,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
1398,How to diagnose Pernicious Anemia ?,"Your doctor will diagnose pernicious anemia based on your medical and family histories, a physical exam, and test results.
                
Your doctor will want to find out whether the condition is due to a lack of intrinsic factor or another cause. He or she also will want to find out the severity of the condition, so it can be properly treated.
                
Specialists Involved
                
Primary care doctorssuch as family doctors, internists, and pediatricians (doctors who treat children)often diagnose and treat pernicious anemia. Other kinds of doctors also may be involved, including:
                
A neurologist (nervous system specialist)
                
A cardiologist (heart specialist)
                
A hematologist (blood disease specialist)
                
A gastroenterologist (digestive tract specialist)
                
Medical and Family Histories
                
Your doctor may ask about your signs and symptoms. He or she also may ask:
                
Whether you've had any stomach or intestinal surgeries
                
Whether you have any digestive disorders, such as celiac disease or Crohn's disease
                
About your diet and any medicines you take
                
Whether you have a family history of anemia or pernicious anemia
                
Whether you have a family history of autoimmune disorders (such as Addison's disease, type 1 diabetes, Graves' disease, or vitiligo). Research suggests a link may exist between these autoimmune disorders and pernicious anemia that's caused by an autoimmune response.
                
Physical Exam
                
During the physical exam, your doctor may check for pale or yellowish skin and an enlarged liver. He or she may listen to your heart for rapid or irregular heartbeats or a heart murmur.
                
Your doctor also may check for signs of nerve damage. He or she may want to see how well your muscles, eyes, senses, and reflexes work. Your doctor may ask questions or do tests to check your mental status, coordination, and ability to walk.
                
Diagnostic Tests and Procedures
                
Blood tests and procedures can help diagnose pernicious anemia and find out what's causing it.
                
Complete Blood Count
                
Often, the first test used to diagnose many types of anemia is a complete blood count (CBC). This test measures many parts of your blood. For this test, a small amount of blood is drawn from a vein (usually in your arm) using a needle.
                
A CBC checks your hemoglobin (HEE-muh-glow-bin) and hematocrit (hee-MAT-oh-crit) levels. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein that helps red blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. Hematocrit is a measure of how much space red blood cells take up in your blood. A low level of hemoglobin or hematocrit is a sign of anemia.
                
The normal range of these levels may be lower in certain racial and ethnic populations. Your doctor can explain your test results to you.
                
The CBC also checks the number of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets (PLATE-lets) in your blood. Abnormal results may be a sign of anemia, another blood disorder, an infection, or another condition.
                
Finally, the CBC looks at mean corpuscular (kor-PUS-kyu-lar) volume (MCV). MCV is a measure of the average size of your red blood cells. MCV can be a clue as to what's causing your anemia. In pernicious anemia, the red blood cells tend to be larger than normal.
                
Other Blood Tests
                
If the CBC results confirm that you have anemia, you may need other blood tests to find out what type of anemia you have.
                
A reticulocyte (re-TIK-u-lo-site) count measures the number of young red blood cells in your blood. The test shows whether your bone marrow is making red blood cells at the correct rate. People who have pernicious anemia have low reticulocyte counts.
                
Serum folate, iron, and iron-binding capacity tests also can help show whether you have pernicious anemia or another type of anemia.
                
Another common test, called the Combined Binding Luminescence Test, sometimes gives false results. Scientists are working to develop a more reliable test.
                
Your doctor may recommend other blood tests to check:
                
Your vitamin B12 level. A low level of vitamin B12 in the blood indicates pernicious anemia. However, a falsely normal or high value of vitamin B12 in the blood may occur if antibodies interfere with the test.
                
Your homocysteine and methylmalonic acid (MMA) levels. High levels of these substances in your body are a sign of pernicious anemia.
                
For intrinsic factor antibodies and parietal cell antibodies. These antibodies also are a sign of pernicious anemia.
                
Bone Marrow Tests
                
Bone marrow tests can show whether your bone marrow is healthy and making enough red blood cells. The two bone marrow tests are aspiration (as-pi-RA-shun) and biopsy.
                
For aspiration, your doctor removes a small amount of fluid bone marrow through a needle. For a biopsy, your doctor removes a small amount of bone marrow tissue through a larger needle. The samples are then examined under a microscope.
                
In pernicious anemia, the bone marrow cells that turn into blood cells are larger than normal."
1399,What are the genetic changes related to hypophosphatasia ?,"Mutations in the ALPL gene cause hypophosphatasia.  The ALPL gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called alkaline phosphatase. This enzyme plays an essential role in mineralization of the skeleton and teeth. Mutations in the ALPL gene lead to the production of an abnormal version of alkaline phosphatase that cannot participate effectively in the mineralization process. A shortage of alkaline phosphatase allows several other substances, which are normally processed by the enzyme, to build up abnormally in the body. Researchers believe that a buildup of one of these compounds, inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi), underlies the defective mineralization of bones and teeth in people with hypophosphatasia.  ALPL mutations that almost completely eliminate the activity of alkaline phosphatase usually result in the more severe forms of hypophosphatasia. Other mutations, which reduce but do not eliminate the activity of the enzyme, are often responsible for milder forms of the condition."
1400,What is the outlook for Childhood Brain Stem Glioma ?,Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. The prognosis and treatment options depend on:         - The type of brain stem glioma.    - Where the tumor is found in the brain and if it has spread within the brain stem.    - The age of the child when diagnosed.    - Whether or not the child has a condition called neurofibromatosis type 1.    - Whether the tumor has just been diagnosed or has recurred (come back).
1401,What is (are) succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase deficiency ?,"Succinyl-CoA:3-ketoacid CoA transferase (SCOT) deficiency is an inherited disorder that impairs the body's ability to break down ketones, which are molecules produced in the liver during the breakdown of fats.  The signs and symptoms of SCOT deficiency typically appear within the first few years of life. Affected individuals experience episodes of extreme tiredness (lethargy), appetite loss, vomiting, rapid breathing, and, occasionally, seizures. These episodes, which are called ketoacidotic attacks, sometimes lead to coma. About half of affected individuals have a ketoacidotic attack within the first 4 days of life. Affected individuals have no symptoms of the disorder between ketoacidotic attacks.  People with SCOT deficiency usually have a permanently elevated level of ketones in their blood (persistent ketosis). If the level of ketones gets too high, which can be brought on by infections, fevers, or periods without food (fasting), a ketoacidotic attack can occur. The frequency of ketoacidotic attacks varies among affected individuals."
1402,What is the outlook for Infantile Spasms ?,"The prognosis for children with IS is dependent on the underlying causes of the seizures. The intellectual prognosis for children with IS is generally poor because many babies with IS have neurological impairment prior to the onset of spasms. Epileptic spasms usually reduce in number by mid-childhood, but more than half of the children with IS will develop other types of seizures. There appears to be a close relationship between IS and Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome, an epileptic disorder of later childhood."
1403,What is (are) Mucolipidoses ?,"The mucolipidoses (ML) are a group of inherited metabolic diseases that affect the bodys ability to carry out the normal turnover of various materials within cells. In ML, abnormal amounts of carbohydrates and fatty materials (lipids) accumulate in cells. Because our cells are not able to handle such large amounts of these substances, damage to the cells occurs, causing symptoms that range from mild learning disabilities to severe intellectual impairment and skeletal deformities.
                
The group includes four diseases:
                
- Mucolipidosis I (sialidosis)  - Mucolipidosis II (inclusion-cell, or I-cell, disease)  - Mucolipidosis III (pseudo-Hurler polydystrophy)  - Mucolipidosis IV
                
The MLs are classified as lysosomal storage diseases because they involve increased storage of substances in the lysosomes, which are specialized sac-like components within most cells. Individuals with ML are born with a genetic defect in which their bodies either do not produce enough enzymes or, in some instances, produce ineffective forms of enzymes. Without functioning enzymes, lysosomes cannot break down carbohydrates and lipids and transport them to their normal destination. The molecules then accumulate in the cells of various tissues in the body, leading to swelling and damage of organs.
                
The mucolipidoses occur only when a child inherits two copies of the defective gene, one from each parent. When both parents carry a defective gene, each of their children faces a one in four chance of developing one of the MLs."
1404,What are the symptoms of Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2? The most common symptom of pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2 is high blood pressure in adolescents or young adults. In its most severe form, it is associated with muscle weakness, short stature, and intellectual impairment. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Hyperkalemia 90% Hypertension 90% Flexion contracture 50% Nausea and vomiting 50% Abnormality of dental enamel 7.5% Muscle weakness 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hyperchloremic acidosis - Periodic hyperkalemic paralysis - Pseudohypoaldosteronism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1405,What are the symptoms of Patent ductus venosus ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Patent ductus venosus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Patent ductus venosus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Congenital portosystemic venous shunt - Decreased liver function - Hepatic encephalopathy - Hepatic steatosis - Hyperammonemia - Hypergalactosemia - Persistent patent ductus venosus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1406,What are the symptoms of Parkinson disease ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Parkinson disease? A number of disorders can cause symptoms similar to those of Parkinson disease. People with symptoms that resemble Parkinson disease but that result from other causes are sometimes said to have parkinsonism. Some of these disorders are listed below. Postencephalitic parkinsonism Drug-induced parkinsonism Toxin-induced parkinsonism Arteriosclerotic parkinsonism Parkinsonism-dementia complex of Guam Post-traumatic parkinsonism  Essential tremor Normal pressure hydrocephalus  Progressive supranuclear palsy Corticobasal degeneration  Multiple system atrophy  Dementia with Lewy bodies  More information on each of these conditions is available in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) publication, Parkinson's Disease: Hope Through Research.  Parkinsonian symptoms may also appear in patients with other, clearly distinct neurological disorders such as Wilson disease, Huntington disease, Alzheimer disease, spinocerebellar ataxias, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Each of these disorders has specific features that help to distinguish them from Parkinson disease. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Parkinson disease. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Dysautonomia 7.5% Hallucinations 7.5% Bradykinesia - Constipation - Dementia - Depression - Dysarthria - Dysphagia - Dystonia - Insidious onset - Lewy bodies - Mask-like facies - Neuronal loss in central nervous system - Parkinsonism - Personality changes - Postural instability - Progressive - Resting tremor - Rigidity - Short stepped shuffling gait - Sleep disturbance - Substantia nigra gliosis - Urinary urgency - Weak voice - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1407,Is Mainzer-Saldino syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1408,Is Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 inherited ?,"How is pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 inherited? Pontocerebellar hypoplasia type 1 (PCH1) is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the associated gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. This means that parents who are carriers of this condition have a 25% chance of having an affected child."
1409,What are the symptoms of Renal dysplasia diffuse cystic ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Renal dysplasia diffuse cystic? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Renal dysplasia diffuse cystic. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Vesicoureteral reflux 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital onset - Cystic renal dysplasia - Hyperechogenic kidneys - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Renal dysplasia - Renal insufficiency - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1410,"What is (are) Twins, Triplets, Multiple Births ?","If you are pregnant with more than one baby, you are far from alone. Multiple births are up in the United States. More women are having babies after age 30 and more are taking fertility drugs. Both boost the chance of carrying more than one baby. A family history of twins also makes multiples more likely.    Years ago, most twins came as a surprise. Now, most women know about a multiple pregnancy early. Women with multiple pregnancies should see their health care providers more often than women who are expecting one baby. Multiple pregnancy babies have a much higher risk of being born prematurely and having a low birth weight. There is also more of a risk of disabilities. Some women have to go on bed rest to delay labor. Finally, they may deliver by C-section, especially if there are three babies or more.    Parenting multiples can be a challenge. Volunteer help and support groups for parents of multiples can help.    Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
1411,What are the symptoms of Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors ?,"Signs of Wilms tumor and other childhood kidney tumors include a lump in the abdomen and blood in the urine. Sometimes childhood kidney tumors do not cause signs and symptoms and the parent finds a mass in the abdomen by chance or the mass is found during a well-child health check up. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by kidney tumors or by other conditions. Check with your child's doctor if your child has any of the following:         - A lump, swelling, or pain in the abdomen.    - Blood in the urine.     -  High blood pressure (headache, feeling very tired, chest pain, or trouble seeing or breathing).    -  Hypercalcemia (loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, weakness, or feeling very tired).    -  Fever for no known reason.    - Loss of appetite.    - Weight loss for no known reason.        Wilms tumor that has spread to the lungs or liver may cause the following signs and symptoms:         - Cough.    - Blood in the sputum.    - Trouble breathing.    - Pain in the abdomen."
1412,What is (are) Ovarian Cysts ?,"A cyst is a fluid-filled sac. In most cases a cyst on the ovary does no harm and goes away by itself. Most women have them sometime during their lives. Cysts are rarely cancerous in women under 50. Cysts sometimes hurt - but not always. Often, a woman finds out about a cyst when she has a pelvic exam.     If you're in your childbearing years or past menopause, have no symptoms, and have a fluid-filled cyst, you may choose to monitor the cyst. You may need surgery if you have pain, are past menopause or if the cyst does not go away. Birth control pills can help prevent new cysts.    A health problem that may involve ovarian cysts is polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Women with PCOS can have high levels of male hormones, irregular or no periods and small ovarian cysts.    Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
1413,How many people are affected by acral peeling skin syndrome ?,"Acral peeling skin syndrome is a rare condition, with several dozen cases reported in the medical literature. However, because its signs and symptoms tend to be mild and similar to those of other skin disorders, the condition is likely underdiagnosed."
1414,What are the symptoms of Pulmonary Embolism ?,"Major Signs and Symptoms
                
Signs and symptoms of pulmonary embolism (PE) include unexplained shortness of breath, problems breathing, chest pain, coughing, or coughing up blood. An arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat) also may suggest that you have PE.
                
Sometimes the only signs and symptoms are related to deep vein thrombosis (DVT). These include swelling of the leg or along a vein in the leg, pain or tenderness in the leg, a feeling of increased warmth in the area of the leg that's swollen or tender, and red or discolored skin on the affected leg.
                
See your doctor right away if you have any signs or symptoms of PE or DVT. It's also possible to have PE and not have any signs or symptoms.
                
Other Signs and Symptoms
                
Some people who have PE have feelings of anxiety or dread, light-headedness or fainting, rapid breathing, sweating, or an increased heart rate."
1415,What are the symptoms of Raine syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Raine syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Raine syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anteverted nares 90% Depressed nasal ridge 90% Enlarged thorax 90% Exaggerated cupid's bow 90% Increased bone mineral density 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Microcephaly 90% Short neck 90% Gingival overgrowth 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Proptosis 50% Respiratory insufficiency 50% Short nose 50% Mixed hearing impairment 7.5% Natal tooth 7.5% Bowing of the long bones 5% Brachydactyly syndrome 5% Highly arched eyebrow 5% Hydrocephalus 5% Hydronephrosis 5% Hypoplasia of dental enamel 5% Long hallux 5% Mandibular prognathia 5% Microdontia 5% Micromelia 5% Pectus excavatum 5% Plagiocephaly 5% Protruding ear 5% Wide mouth 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Brachyturricephaly - Cerebral calcification - Choanal atresia - Choanal stenosis - Cleft palate - Depressed nasal bridge - Elevated alkaline phosphatase - High palate - Hypertelorism - Hypophosphatemia - Hypoplasia of midface - Large fontanelles - Malar flattening - Narrow mouth - Neonatal death - Protruding tongue - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Short stature - Thoracic hypoplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1416,Is spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. In most cases, males experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females (who have two X chromosomes). Females with a mutation in one copy of the AR gene in each cell are typically unaffected. A few females with mutations in both copies of the gene have had mild features related to the condition, including muscle cramps and occasional tremors. Researchers believe that the milder signs and symptoms in females may be related to lower androgen levels.  A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons."
1417,What are the symptoms of Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia type A4 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia type A4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia type A4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Micromelia 90% Platyspondyly 90% Short stature 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Enlarged thorax 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad ischia - Costochondral joint sclerosis - Coxa valga - Disproportionate short-limb short stature - Dolichocephaly - Enlargement of the costochondral junction - Flat acetabular roof - Hypoplasia of the capital femoral epiphysis - Irregular capital femoral epiphysis - Irregular patellae - Metaphyseal irregularity - Metaphyseal sclerosis - Metaphyseal widening - Narrow greater sacrosciatic notches - Osteoporotic metatarsal - Osteoporotic tarsals - Ovoid vertebral bodies - Pectus carinatum - Sclerotic humeral metaphysis - Severe short stature - Spondylometaphyseal dysplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1418,What are the symptoms of Dermochondrocorneal dystrophy of Franois ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dermochondrocorneal dystrophy of Franois? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dermochondrocorneal dystrophy of Franois. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hand - Anterior cortical cataract - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Corneal dystrophy - Gingival overgrowth - Irregular tarsal ossification - Skin nodule - Subepithelial corneal opacities - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1419,What causes High Blood Cholesterol ?,"Many factors can affect the cholesterol levels in your blood. You can control some factors, but not others.
                
Factors You Can Control
                
Diet
                
Cholesterol is found in foods that come from animal sources, such as egg yolks, meat, and cheese. Some foods have fats that raise your cholesterol level.
                
For example, saturated fat raises your low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level more than anything else in your diet. Saturated fat is found in some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods.
                
Trans fatty acids (trans fats) raise your LDL cholesterol and lower your high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Trans fats are made when hydrogen is added to vegetable oil to harden it. Trans fats are found in some fried and processed foods.
                
Limiting foods with cholesterol, saturated fat, and trans fats can help you control your cholesterol levels.
                
Physical Activity and Weight
                
Lack of physical activity can lead to weight gain. Being overweight tends to raise your LDL level, lower your HDL level, and increase your total cholesterol level. (Total cholesterol is a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in your blood, including LDL and HDL.)
                
Routine physical activity can help you lose weight and lower your LDL cholesterol. Being physically active also can help you raise your HDL cholesterol level.
                
Factors You Cant Control
                
Heredity
                
High blood cholesterol can run in families. An inherited condition called familial hypercholesterolemia causes very high LDL cholesterol. (Inherited means the condition is passed from parents to children through genes.) This condition begins at birth, and it may cause a heart attack at an early age.
                
Age and Sex
                
Starting at puberty, men often have lower levels of HDL cholesterol than women. As women and men age, their LDL cholesterol levels often rise. Before age 55, women usually have lower LDL cholesterol levels than men. However, afterage 55, women can have higher LDL levels than men."
1420,What are the treatments for Post-Polio Syndrome ?,"Presently, no prevention has been found that can stop deterioration or reverse the deficits caused by the syndrome A number of controlled studies have demonstrated that nonfatiguing exercises may improve muscle strength and reduce tiredness. Doctors recommend that polio survivors follow standard healthy lifestyle practices: consuming a well-balanced diet, exercising judiciously (preferably under the supervision of an experienced health professional), and visiting a doctor regularly. There has been much debate about whether to encourage or discourage exercise for polio survivors or individuals who already have PPS. A commonsense approach, in which people use individual tolerance as their limit, is currently recommended. Preliminary studies indicate that intravenous immunoglobulin therapy may reduce pain, increase quality of life, and improve strength modestly."
1421,What is (are) X-linked lymphoproliferative disease ?,"X-linked lymphoproliferative disease (XLP) is a disorder of the immune system and blood-forming cells that is found almost exclusively in males. More than half of individuals with this disorder experience an exaggerated immune response to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). EBV is a very common virus that eventually infects most humans. In some people it causes infectious mononucleosis (commonly known as ""mono""). Normally, after initial infection, EBV remains in certain immune system cells (lymphocytes) called B cells. However, the virus is generally inactive (latent) because it is controlled by other lymphocytes called T cells that specifically target EBV-infected B cells.  People with XLP may respond to EBV infection by producing abnormally large numbers of T cells, B cells, and other lymphocytes called macrophages. This proliferation of immune cells often causes a life-threatening reaction called hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis causes fever, destroys blood-producing cells in the bone marrow, and damages the liver. The spleen, heart, kidneys, and other organs and tissues may also be affected. In some individuals with XLP, hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis or related symptoms may occur without EBV infection.  About one-third of people with XLP experience dysgammaglobulinemia, which means they have abnormal levels of some types of antibodies. Antibodies (also known as immunoglobulins) are proteins that attach to specific foreign particles and germs, marking them for destruction. Individuals with dysgammaglobulinemia are prone to recurrent infections.  Cancers of immune system cells (lymphomas) occur in about one-third of people with XLP.  Without treatment, most people with XLP survive only into childhood. Death usually results from hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.  XLP can be divided into two types based on its genetic cause and pattern of signs and symptoms: XLP1 (also known as classic XLP) and XLP2. People with XLP2 have not been known to develop lymphoma, are more likely to develop hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis without EBV infection, usually have an enlarged spleen (splenomegaly), and may also have inflammation of the large intestine (colitis). Some researchers believe that these individuals should actually be considered to have a similar but separate disorder rather than a type of XLP."
1422,What is (are) Gorlin syndrome ?,"Gorlin syndrome, also known as nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome, is a condition that affects many areas of the body and increases the risk of developing various cancerous and noncancerous tumors.  In people with Gorlin syndrome, the type of cancer diagnosed most often is basal cell carcinoma, which is the most common form of skin cancer. Individuals with Gorlin syndrome typically begin to develop basal cell carcinomas during adolescence or early adulthood. These cancers occur most often on the face, chest, and back. The number of basal cell carcinomas that develop during a person's lifetime varies among affected individuals. Some people with Gorlin syndrome never develop any basal cell carcinomas, while others may develop thousands of these cancers. Individuals with lighter skin are more likely to develop basal cell carcinomas than are people with darker skin.  Most people with Gorlin syndrome also develop noncancerous (benign) tumors of the jaw, called keratocystic odontogenic tumors. These tumors usually first appear during adolescence, and new tumors form until about age 30. Keratocystic odontogenic tumors rarely develop later in adulthood. If untreated, these tumors may cause painful facial swelling and tooth displacement.  Individuals with Gorlin syndrome have a higher risk than the general population of developing other tumors. A small proportion of affected individuals develop a brain tumor called medulloblastoma during childhood. A type of benign tumor called a fibroma can occur in the heart or in a woman's ovaries. Heart (cardiac) fibromas often do not cause any symptoms, but they may obstruct blood flow or cause irregular heartbeats (arrhythmia). Ovarian fibromas are not thought to affect a woman's ability to have children (fertility).  Other features of Gorlin syndrome include small depressions (pits) in the skin of the palms of the hands and soles of the feet; an unusually large head size (macrocephaly) with a prominent forehead; and skeletal abnormalities involving the spine, ribs, or skull. These signs and symptoms are typically apparent from birth or become evident in early childhood."
1423,What is (are) Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumors ?,"Key Points
                    - Childhood central nervous system (CNS) germ cell tumors form from germ cells.     - There are different types of childhood CNS germ cell tumors.          - Germinomas     - Nongerminomas        - The cause of most childhood CNS germ cell tumors is not known.    - Signs and symptoms of childhood CNS germ cell tumors include unusual thirst, frequent urination, early puberty, or vision changes.    - Imaging studies and tests are used to detect (find) and diagnose childhood CNS germ cell tumors.    - A biopsy may be done to be sure of the diagnosis of CNS germ cell tumor.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    Childhood central nervous system (CNS) germ cell tumors form from germ cells.
                    Germ cells are a type of cell that form as a fetus (unborn baby) develops. These cells later become sperm in the testicles or eggs in the ovaries. Sometimes while the fetus is forming, germ cells travel to other parts of the body and grow into germ cell tumors. Germ cells tumors that form in the brain or spinal cord are called CNS germ cell tumors.   The most common places for one or more central nervous system (CNS) germ cell tumors to form is near the pineal gland and in an area of the brain that includes the pituitary gland and the tissue just above it. Sometimes germ cell tumors may form in other areas of the brain.    This summary is about germ cell tumors that start in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). Germ cell tumors may also form in other parts of the body. See the PDQ summary on Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors Treatment for information on germ cell tumors that are extracranial (outside the brain).    CNS germ cell tumors usually occur in children, but may occur in adults. Treatment for children may be different than treatment for adults. See the following PDQ summaries for information about treatment for adults:         -  Adult Central Nervous System Tumors Treatment     -  Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumors Treatment         For information about other types of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors, see the PDQ summary on Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Treatment Overview.
                
                
                    There are different types of childhood CNS germ cell tumors.
                    There are different types of CNS germ cell tumors. The type of CNS germ cell tumor depends on what the cells look like under a microscope. This summary is about the treatment of the following types of CNS germ cell tumors:     Germinomas    Germinomas are the most common type of CNS germ cell tumor and have a good prognosis.       Nongerminomas    Some nongerminomas make hormones. CNS teratomas are a type of nongerminoma that does not make hormones. They may have different kinds of tissue in them, such as hair, muscle, and bone. Teratomas are described as mature or immature, based on how normal the cells look under a microscope. Sometimes teratomas are a mix of mature and immature cells.     Other types of nongerminomas include the following:            -  Choriocarcinomas make the hormone beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG).     -  Embryonal carcinomas do not make hormones.     - Yolk sac tumors make the hormone alpha-fetoprotein (AFP).     - Mixed germ cell tumors are made of more than one kind of germ cell."
1424,What are the symptoms of Tourette syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tourette syndrome? The early symptoms of Tourette syndrome are almost always noticed first in childhood, with the average onset between the ages of 3 and 9 years. Although the symptoms of Tourette syndrome vary from person to person and range from very mild to severe, the majority of cases fall into the mild category. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tourette syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aggressive behavior - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Echolalia - Motor tics - Obsessive-compulsive behavior - Phonic tics - Self-mutilation - Sleep disturbance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1425,What is (are) Q fever ?,"Q fever is a worldwide disease with acute and chronic stages caused by the bacteria known as Coxiella burnetii. Cattle, sheep, and goats are the primary reservoirs although a variety of species may be infected. Organisms are excreted in birth fluids, milk, urine, and feces of infected animals and are able to survive for long periods in the environment. Infection of humans usually occurs by inhalation of these organisms from air that contains airborne barnyard dust contaminated by dried placental material, birth fluids, and excreta of infected animals. Other modes of transmission to humans, including tick bites, ingestion of unpasteurized milk or dairy products, and human to human transmission, are rare. Humans are often very susceptible to the disease, and very few organisms may be required to cause infection. In less than 5% of cases the affected people with acute Q fever infection develop a chronic Q fever. Treatment of the acute form is made with antibiotics. The chronic form's treatment depend on the symptoms."
1426,What is (are) Birth Defects ?,"A birth defect is a problem that happens while a baby is developing in the mother's body. Most birth defects happen during the first 3 months of pregnancy. One out of every 33 babies in the United States is born with a birth defect.    A birth defect may affect how the body looks, works or both. Some birth defects like cleft lip or neural tube defects are structural problems that can be easy to see. To find others, like heart defects, doctors use special tests. Birth defects can vary from mild to severe. Some result from exposures to medicines or chemicals. For example, alcohol abuse can cause fetal alcohol syndrome. Infections during pregnancy can also result in birth defects. For most birth defects, the cause is unknown.     Some birth defects can be prevented. Taking folic acid can help prevent some birth defects. Talk to your doctor about any medicines you take. Some medicines can cause serious birth defects.    Babies with birth defects may need surgery or other medical treatments. Today, doctors can diagnose many birth defects in the womb. This enables them to treat or even correct some problems before the baby is born.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
1427,What are the symptoms of Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Constipation 50% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bradycardia - Impaired pain sensation - Lacrimation abnormality - Mandibular pain - Neonatal onset - Ocular pain - Tachycardia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1428,What is (are) Canavan Disease ?,"Canavan disease is a gene-linked neurological disorder in which the brain degenerates into spongy tissue riddled with microscopic fluid-filled spaces. Canavan disease has been classified as one of a group of genetic disorders known as the leukodystrophies. Recent research has indicated that the cells in the brain responsible for making myelin sheaths, known as oligodendrocytes, cannot properly complete this critical developmental task. Myelin sheaths are the fatty covering that act as insulators around nerve fibers in the brain, as well as providing nutritional support for nerve cells. In Canavan disease, many oligodendrocytes do not mature and instead die, leaving nerve cell projections known as axons vulnerable and unable to properly function. Canavan disease is caused by mutation in the gene for an enzyme called aspartoacylase, which acts to break down the concentrated brain chemical known as N-acetyl-aspartate.
                
Symptoms of Canavan disease usually appear in the first 3 to 6 months of life and progress rapidly. Symptoms include lack of motor development, feeding difficulties, abnormal muscle tone (weakness or stiffness), and an abnormally large, poorly controlled head. Paralysis, blindness, or hearing loss may also occur. Children are characteristically quiet and apathetic. Although Canavan disease may occur in any ethnic group, it is more frequent among Ashkenazi Jews from eastern Poland, Lithuania, and western Russia, and among Saudi Arabians. Canavan disease can be identified by a simple prenatal blood test that screens for the missing enzyme or for mutations in the gene that controls aspartoacylase. Both parents must be carriers of the defective gene in order to have an affected child. When both parents are found to carry the Canavan gene mutation, there is a one in four (25 percent) chance with each pregnancy that the child will be affected with Canavan disease."
1429,Is 47 XXX syndrome inherited ?,"Is 47 XXX syndrome inherited? Most cases of 47 XXX syndrome are not inherited. The chromosomal change usually occurs as a random event during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction can result in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. For example, an egg or sperm cell may gain an extra copy of the X chromosome as a result of nondisjunction. If one of these reproductive cells contributes to the genetic makeup of a child, the child will have an extra X chromosome in each of the body's cells. 46,XX/47,XXX mosaicism is also not inherited. It occurs as a random event during cell division in the early development of an embryo. As a result, some of an affected person's cells have two X chromosomes (46,XX), and other cells have three X chromosomes (47,XXX). Transmission of an abnormal number of X chromosomes from women with 47 XXX syndrome is rare, although it has been reported. Some reports suggest a <5% increased risk for a chromosomally abnormal pregnancy, and other more recent reports suggest that <1% may be more accurate. These risks are separate from the risks of having a chromosomally abnormal pregnancy due to maternal age or any other factors. Furthermore, these risks generally apply only to women with non-mosaic 47 XXX syndrome, as mosaicism may increase the risk of passing on an abnormal number of X chromosomes and potential outcomes. Each individual with 47 XXX syndrome who is interested in learning about their own risks to have a child with a chromosome abnormality or other genetic abnormality should speak with their healthcare provider or a genetics professional."
1430,What are the symptoms of Angel shaped phalangoepiphyseal dysplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Angel shaped phalangoepiphyseal dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Angel shaped phalangoepiphyseal dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Delayed eruption of teeth 50% Short stature 50% Delayed skeletal maturation 7.5% Delayed ossification of carpal bones - Hip osteoarthritis - Hyperextensibility of the finger joints - Premature osteoarthritis - Pseudoepiphyses of the metacarpals - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1431,What is (are) Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors ?,"Key Points
                    - Childhood extracranial germ cell tumors form from germ cells in parts of the body other than the brain.    - Childhood extracranial germ cell tumors may be benign or malignant.    - There are three types of extracranial germ cell tumors.         - Mature Teratomas      - Immature Teratomas      - Malignant Germ Cell Tumors        - Childhood extracranial germ cell tumors are grouped as gonadal or extragonadal.          - Gonadal Germ Cell Tumors     - Extragonadal Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors        - The cause of most childhood extracranial germ cell tumors is unknown.    - Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of an extracranial germ cell tumor.    - Signs of childhood extracranial germ cell tumors depend on the type of tumor and where it is in the body.    - Imaging studies and blood tests are used to detect (find) and diagnose childhood extracranial germ cell tumors.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Childhood extracranial germ cell tumors form from germ cells in parts of the body other than the brain.
                    A germ cell is a type of cell that forms as a fetus (unborn baby) develops. These cells later become sperm in the testicles or eggs in the ovaries. Sometimes while the fetus is forming, germ cells travel to parts of the body where they should not be and grow into a germ cell tumor. The tumor may form before or after birth.   This summary is about germ cell tumors that form in parts of the body that are extracranial (outside the brain). Extracranial germ cell tumors usually form in the following areas of the body:          - Testicles.    - Ovaries.    -  Sacrum or coccyx (bottom part of the spine).    - Retroperitoneum (the back wall of the abdomen).    -  Mediastinum (area between the lungs).               Extracranial germ cell tumors are most common in adolescents 15 to 19 years of age.   See the PDQ summary on Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumors Treatment for information on intracranial (inside the brain) germ cell tumors.
                
                
                    Childhood extracranial germ cell tumors may be benign or malignant.
                    Extracranial germ cell tumors may be benign (noncancer) or malignant (cancer).
                
                
                    There are three types of extracranial germ cell tumors.
                    Extracranial germ cell tumors are grouped into mature teratomas, immature teratomas, and malignant germ cell tumors:      Mature Teratomas     Mature teratomas are the most common type of extracranial germ cell tumor. Mature teratomas are benign tumors and not likely to become cancer. They usually occur in the sacrum or coccyx (bottom part of the spine) in newborns or in the ovaries of girls at the start of puberty. The cells of mature teratomas look almost like normal cells under a microscope. Some mature teratomas release enzymes or hormones that cause signs and symptoms of disease.       Immature Teratomas     Immature teratomas also usually occur in the sacrum or coccyx (bottom part of the spine) in newborns or the ovaries of girls at the start of puberty. Immature teratomas have cells that look very different from normal cells under a microscope. Immature teratomas may be cancer. They often have several different types of tissue in them, such as hair, muscle, and bone. Some immature teratomas release enzymes or hormones that cause signs and symptoms of disease.       Malignant Germ Cell Tumors     Malignant germ cell tumors are cancer. There are two main types of malignant germ cell tumors:            - Germinomas: Tumors that make a hormone called beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG). There are three types of germinomas.                  -  Dysgerminomas form in the ovary in girls.       -  Seminomas form in the testicle in boys.       - Germinomas form in areas of the body that are not the ovary or testicle.                - Nongerminomas: There are four types of nongerminomas.                  - Yolk sac tumors make a hormone called alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). They can form in the ovary, testicle, or other areas of the body.       -  Choriocarcinomas make a hormone called beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG). They can form in the ovary, testicle, or other areas of the body.       -  Embryonal carcinomas may make a hormone called -hCG and/or a hormone called AFP. They can form in the testicle or other parts of the body, but not in the ovary.       - Mixed germ cell tumors are made up of both malignant germ cell tumor and teratoma. They can form in the ovary, testicle, or other areas of the body.
                
                
                    Childhood extracranial germ cell tumors are grouped as gonadal or extragonadal.
                    Malignant extracranial germ cell tumors are gonadal or extragonadal.     Gonadal Germ Cell Tumors    Gonadal germ cell tumors form in the testicles in boys or ovaries in girls.          Testicular Germ Cell Tumors        Testicular germ cell tumors are divided into two main types, seminoma and nonseminoma.               - Seminomas make a hormone called beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (-hCG).      - Nonseminomas are usually large and cause signs or symptoms. They tend to grow and spread more quickly than seminomas.              Testicular germ cell tumors usually occur before the age of 4 years or in adolescents and young adults. Testicular germ cell tumors in adolescents and young adults are different from those that form in early childhood.     Boys older than 14 years with testicular germ cell tumors are treated in pediatric cancer centers, but the treatment is much like the treatment used in adults. (See the PDQ summary on Testicular Cancer Treatment for more information.)             Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors        Ovarian germ cell tumors are more common in adolescent girls and young women. Most ovarian germ cell tumors are benign teratomas. Sometimes immature teratomas, dysgerminomas, yolk sac tumors, and mixed germ cell tumors (cancer) occur. (See the PDQ summary on Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors Treatment for more information.)          Extragonadal Extracranial Germ Cell Tumors    Extragonadal extracranial germ cell tumors form in areas other than the brain, testicles, or ovaries.    Most extragonadal extracranial germ cell tumors form along the midline of the body. This includes the following:             - Sacrum (the large, triangle-shaped bone in the lower spine that forms part of the pelvis).     -  Coccyx (the small bone at the bottom of the spine, also called the tailbone).     -  Mediastinum (the area between the lungs).     -  Back of the abdomen.     -  Neck.           In younger children, extragonadal extracranial germ cell tumors usually occur at birth or in early childhood. Most of these tumors are teratomas in the sacrum or coccyx.    In older children, adolescents, and young adults, extragonadal extracranial germ cell tumors are often in the mediastinum."
1432,What are the symptoms of Urocanase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Urocanase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Urocanase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Nystagmus 5% Aggressive behavior - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blue irides - Fair hair - Intellectual disability, progressive - Intellectual disability, severe - Short stature - Tremor - Urocanic aciduria - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1433,How many people are affected by Holt-Oram syndrome ?,"Holt-Oram syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 100,000 individuals."
1434,"What is (are) Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, progeroid type ?","Ehlers-Danlos syndrome progeroid type is a genetic disorder of the connective tissue, which is the material between the cells of the body that gives tissues form and strength. The disorder primarily affects the skin, hair, and skeletal system. Symptoms usually show up by childhood or adolescence. Like people with other types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, individuals with the progeroid form have unusually flexible joints, loose elastic skin, and easy scarring. Features that are unique to this type include sparse scalp hair and eyebrows, and loose elastic skin on the face; these features cause affected individuals to look older than their age. Additional symptoms may include bone weakness, weak muscle tone, mild intellectual disability, and delayed growth in affected children. The progeroid type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is caused by mutations in the B4GALT7 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern."
1435,What are the treatments for COL4A1-related brain small-vessel disease ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of COL4A1-related brain small-vessel disease:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: COL4A1-Related Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Brain small vessel disease with hemorrhage   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1436,How many people are affected by mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy disease ?,The prevalence of MNGIE disease is unknown. About 70 people with this disorder have been reported.
1437,What are the treatments for Congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?,"How might congenital contractural arachnodactyly be treated? Physical therapy for joint contractures helps increase joint mobility and ameliorate the effects of muscle hypoplasia (usually in the calf muscles). In severe cases, surgical release may be necessary. Since the kyphosis/scoliosis tends to be progressive, bracing and/or surgical correction is often needed. Consultation with an orthopedist is encouraged. Other symptoms, if present, should be addressed as they arise and in the standard manner. Regular physician visits should be scheduled to monitor symptom progression and development."
1438,What are the symptoms of Pretibial epidermolysis bullosa ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pretibial epidermolysis bullosa? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pretibial epidermolysis bullosa. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal blistering of the skin 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Atypical scarring of skin 50% Pruritus 50% Hyperkeratosis 7.5% Lichenification 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Pretibial blistering - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1439,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Refsum Disease ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) supports research related to Adult Refsum Disease through grants to major research institutions across the country. Research is focused on finding better ways to prevent, treat, and ultimately cure ARD and other peroxisomal disorders."
1440,What is (are) Vohwinkel syndrome ?,"Vohwinkel syndrome is a disorder with classic and variant forms, both of which affect the skin.  In the classic form of Vohwinkel syndrome, affected individuals have thick, honeycomb-like calluses on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet (palmoplantar keratoses) beginning in infancy or early childhood. Affected children also typically have distinctive starfish-shaped patches of thickened skin on the tops of the fingers and toes or on the knees. Within a few years they develop tight bands of abnormal fibrous tissue around their fingers and toes (pseudoainhum); the bands may cut off the circulation to the digits and result in spontaneous amputation. People with the classic form of the disorder also have hearing loss.  The variant form of Vohwinkel syndrome does not involve hearing loss, and the skin features also include widespread dry, scaly skin (ichthyosis), especially on the limbs. The ichthyosis is usually mild, and there may also be mild reddening of the skin (erythroderma). Some affected infants are born with a tight, clear sheath covering their skin called a collodion membrane. This membrane is usually shed during the first few weeks of life."
1441,What are the treatments for myasthenia gravis ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of myasthenia gravis:  - Cleveland Clinic  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myasthenia gravis  - Genetic Testing Registry: Myasthenia gravis with thymus hyperplasia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Acetylcholine Receptor Antibody  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Tensilon Test   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1442,What is (are) Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome ?,"Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is a condition characterized by abnormal electrical pathways in the heart that cause a disruption of the heart's normal rhythm (arrhythmia).  The heartbeat is controlled by electrical signals that move through the heart in a highly coordinated way. A specialized cluster of cells called the atrioventricular node conducts electrical impulses from the heart's upper chambers (the atria) to the lower chambers (the ventricles). Impulses move through the atrioventricular node during each heartbeat, stimulating the ventricles to contract slightly later than the atria.  People with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome are born with an extra connection in the heart, called an accessory pathway, that allows electrical signals to bypass the atrioventricular node and move from the atria to the ventricles faster than usual. The accessory pathway may also transmit electrical impulses abnormally from the ventricles back to the atria. This extra connection can disrupt the coordinated movement of electrical signals through the heart, leading to an abnormally fast heartbeat (tachycardia) and other arrhythmias. Resulting symptoms include dizziness, a sensation of fluttering or pounding in the chest (palpitations), shortness of breath, and fainting (syncope). In rare cases, arrhythmias associated with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can lead to cardiac arrest and sudden death. The most common arrhythmia associated with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is called paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia.  Complications of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can occur at any age, although some individuals born with an accessory pathway in the heart never experience any health problems associated with the condition.  Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome often occurs with other structural abnormalities of the heart or underlying heart disease. The most common heart defect associated with the condition is Ebstein anomaly, which affects the valve that allows blood to flow from the right atrium to the right ventricle (the tricuspid valve). Additionally, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome can be a component of several other genetic syndromes, including hypokalemic periodic paralysis (a condition that causes episodes of extreme muscle weakness), Pompe disease (a disorder characterized by the storage of excess glycogen), and tuberous sclerosis (a condition that results in the growth of noncancerous tumors in many parts of the body)."
1443,What is (are) TARP syndrome ?,"TARP syndrome is a rare condition affecting males that causes several birth defects. TARP stands for Talipes equinovarus, Atrial septal defect, Robin sequence, and Persistent left superior vena cava. Those with TARP syndrome have clubfoot deformity (talipes equinovarus) and congenital heart defects involving failure of the upper heart chambers to close (atrial septal defect). The Robin sequence (also known as Pierre Robins sequence) is characterized by a small lower jaw at birth that prevents proper feeding of the infant, followed by a retracted or displaced tongue. A high-arched, cleft soft palate is also commonly seen. Affected individuals also have persistent left superior vena cava. TARP syndrome has been reported to cause death before birth or soon after birth. This condition is caused by mutations in the RBM10 gene and is inherited in an X-linked recessive fashion."
1444,Is proopiomelanocortin deficiency inherited ?,"POMC deficiency is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with this condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene. They typically do not have POMC deficiency, but they may have an increased risk of obesity."
1445,What is (are) surfactant dysfunction ?,"Surfactant dysfunction is a lung disorder that causes breathing problems. This condition results from abnormalities in the composition or function of surfactant, a mixture of certain fats (called phospholipids) and proteins that lines the lung tissue and makes breathing easy. Without normal surfactant, the tissue surrounding the air sacs in the lungs (the alveoli) sticks together (because of a force called surface tension) after exhalation, causing the alveoli to collapse. As a result, filling the lungs with air on each breath becomes very difficult, and the delivery of oxygen to the body is impaired.  The signs and symptoms of surfactant dysfunction can vary in severity. The most severe form of this condition causes respiratory distress syndrome in newborns. Affected babies have extreme difficulty breathing and are unable to get enough oxygen. The lack of oxygen can damage the baby's brain and other organs. This syndrome leads to respiratory failure, and most babies with this form of the condition do not survive more than a few months.  Less severe forms of surfactant dysfunction cause gradual onset of breathing problems in children or adults. Signs and symptoms of these milder forms are abnormally rapid breathing (tachypnea); low concentrations of oxygen in the blood (hypoxemia); and an inability to grow or gain weight at the expected rate (failure to thrive).  There are several types of surfactant dysfunction, which are identified by the genetic cause of the condition. One type, called SP-B deficiency, causes respiratory distress syndrome in newborns. Other types, known as SP-C dysfunction and ABCA3 deficiency, have signs and symptoms that range from mild to severe."
1446,What are the treatments for hereditary diffuse gastric cancer ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hereditary diffuse gastric cancer:  - American Cancer Society: How is Stomach Cancer Diagnosed?  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hereditary Diffuse Gastric Cancer  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Gastric Cancer  - Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center: Early Onset and Familial Gastric Cancer Registry  - National Cancer Institute: Gastric Cancer Treatment Option Overview   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1447,What causes Essential tremor ?,"What causes essential tremor? The causes of essential tremor are unknown. Researchers are studying several areas (loci) on particular chromosomes that may be linked to essential tremor, but no specific genetic associations have been confirmed. Several genes, as well as environmental factors, are likely involved in an individual's risk of developing this complex condition."
1448,How many people are affected by Potocki-Shaffer syndrome ?,"Potocki-Shaffer syndrome is a rare condition, although its prevalence is unknown. Fewer than 100 cases have been reported in the scientific literature."
1449,How many people are affected by nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita ?,"Aplasia cutis congenita affects approximately 1 in 10,000 newborns. The incidence of the nonsyndromic form is unknown."
1450,How many people are affected by Bietti crystalline dystrophy ?,"Bietti crystalline dystrophy has been estimated to occur in 1 in 67,000 people. It is more common in people of East Asian descent, especially those of Chinese and Japanese background. Researchers suggest that Bietti crystalline dystrophy may be underdiagnosed because its symptoms are similar to those of other eye disorders that progressively damage the retina."
1451,How many people are affected by Gilbert syndrome ?,Gilbert syndrome is a common condition that is estimated to affect 3 to 7 percent of Americans.
1452,What are the treatments for Binswanger's disease ?,"How is Binswanger's disease treated? The brain damage associated with Binswanger's disease is not reversible. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For example, medications may be prescribed to treat depression, agitation, and other symptoms associated with the condition. Successful management of hypertension and diabetes can slow the progression of atherosclerosis, which can delay the progression of Binswanger's disease."
1453,What are the symptoms of Olmsted syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Olmsted syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Olmsted syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Palmoplantar keratoderma 90% Abnormality of bone mineral density 50% Carious teeth 50% Reduced number of teeth 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 50% Skin ulcer 50% Alopecia 7.5% Melanoma 7.5% Neoplasm of the lung 7.5% Neoplasm of the skin 7.5% Osteolysis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Alopecia universalis 5% Corneal opacity 5% Hyperhidrosis 5% Opacification of the corneal stroma 5% Sparse hair 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Flexion contracture - Nail dysplasia - Nail dystrophy - Parakeratosis - Pruritus - Subungual hyperkeratosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1454,What is (are) Melkersson-Rosenthal Syndrome ?,"Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome is a rare neurological disorder characterized by recurring facial paralysis, swelling of the face and lips (usually the upper lip), and the development of folds and furrows in the tongue. Onset is in childhood or early adolescence. After recurrent attacks (ranging from days to years in between), swelling may persist and increase, eventually becoming permanent. The lip may become hard, cracked, and fissured with a reddish-brown discoloration. The cause of Melkersson-Rosenthal syndrome is unknown, but there may be a genetic predisposition. It can be symptomatic of Crohn's disease or sarcoidosis."
1455,What is (are) Apraxia ?,"Apraxia (called ""dyspraxia"" if mild) is a neurological disorder characterized by loss of the ability to execute or carry out skilled movements and gestures, despite having the desire and the physical ability to perform them. Apraxia results from dysfunction of the cerebral hemispheres of the brain, especially the parietal lobe, and can arise from many diseases or damage to the brain.  There are several kinds of apraxia, which may occur alone or together. The most common is buccofacial or orofacial apraxia, which causes the inability to carry out facial movements on command such as licking lips, whistling, coughing, or winking. Other types of apraxia include limb-kinetic apraxia (the inability to make fine, precise movements with an arm or leg), ideomotor apraxia (the inability to make the proper movement in response to a verbal command), ideational apraxia (the inability to coordinate activities with multiple, sequential movements, such as dressing, eating, and bathing), verbal apraxia (difficulty coordinating mouth and speech movements), constructional apraxia (the inability to copy, draw, or construct simple figures), and oculomotor apraxia (difficulty moving the eyes on command). Apraxia may be accompanied by a language disorder called aphasia. Corticobasal ganglionic degeneration is a disease that causes a variety of types of apraxia, especially in elderly adults."
1456,How many people are affected by Heart Failure ?,"Approximately 5 million people in the United States have heart failure. It contributes to 300,000 deaths each year. It is the number one cause of hospitalizations for people over the age of 65."
1457,What are the symptoms of Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis? The signs and symptoms of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis typically develop during the first months or years of life. However, in rare cases, affected people may not show symptoms until later in childhood or even into adulthood. The features of this condition may include: Fever Enlarged liver and/or spleen Skin rash Lymph node enlargement Breathing problems Easy bruising and/or abnormal bleeding Kidney abnormalities Heart problems Increased risk for certain cancers (leukemia, lymphoma) Many people with this condition also develop neurologic abnormalities. The neurological symptoms vary but may include irritability, fatigue, abnormal muscle tone, seizures, neck stiffness, mental status changes, ataxia, blindness, paralysis, and/or coma. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Reduced natural killer cell activity 13/13 Granulocytopenia 11/14 Neutropenia 5/7 Abnormal natural killer cell physiology - Anemia - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Coma - CSF pleocytosis - Encephalitis - Episodic fever - Failure to thrive - Fever - Generalized edema - Hemiplegia - Hemophagocytosis - Hepatomegaly - Hepatosplenomegaly - Hyperbetalipoproteinemia - Hypertonia - Hypertriglyceridemia - Hypoalbuminemia - Hypoalphalipoproteinemia - Hypofibrinogenemia - Hyponatremia - Hypoproteinemia - Increased circulating very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol - Increased CSF protein - Increased intracranial pressure - Increased serum ferritin - Increased total bilirubin - Irritability - Jaundice - Leukopenia - Lymphadenopathy - Meningitis - Muscular hypotonia - Prolonged partial thromboplastin time - Prolonged prothrombin time - Seizures - Splenomegaly - Tetraplegia - Thrombocytopenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1458,What is (are) Pulmonary Hypertension ?,"Pulmonary hypertension (PULL-mun-ary HI-per-TEN-shun), or PH, is increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries. These arteries carry blood from your heart to your lungs to pick up oxygen.
                
PH causes symptoms such as shortness of breath during routine activity (for example, climbing two flights of stairs), tiredness, chest pain, and a racing heartbeat. As the condition worsens, its symptoms may limit all physical activity.
                
Overview
                
To understand PH, it helps to understand how your heart and lungs work. Your heart has two sides, separated by an inner wall called the septum.
                
Each side of your heart has an upper and lower chamber. The lower right chamber of your heart, the right ventricle (VEN-trih-kul), pumps blood to your pulmonary arteries. The blood then travels to your lungs, where it picks up oxygen.
                
The upper left chamber of your heart, the left atrium (AY-tree-um), receives the oxygen-rich blood from your lungs. The blood is then pumped into the lower left chamber of your heart, the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the blood is pumped to the rest of your body through an artery called the aorta.
                
For more information about the heart and lungs, go to the Diseases and Conditions Index How the Heart Works and How the Lungs Work articles.
                
PH begins with inflammation and changes in the cells that line your pulmonary arteries. Other factors also can affect the pulmonary arteries and cause PH. For example, the condition may develop if:
                
The walls of the arteries tighten.
                
The walls of the arteries are stiff at birth or become stiff from an overgrowth of cells.
                
Blood clots form in the arteries.
                
These changes make it hard for your heart to push blood through your pulmonary arteries and into your lungs. As a result, the pressure in your arteries rises. Also, because your heart is working harder than normal, your right ventricle becomes strained and weak.
                
Your heart may become so weak that it can't pump enough blood to your lungs. This causes heart failure. Heart failure is the most common cause of death in people who have PH.
                
PH is divided into five groups based on its causes. In all groups, the average pressure in the pulmonary arteries is higher than 25 mmHg at rest or 30 mmHg during physical activity. The pressure in normal pulmonary arteries is 820 mmHg at rest. (The mmHg is millimeters of mercurythe units used to measure blood pressure.)
                
Other diseases or conditions, such as heart and lung diseases or blood clots, usually cause PH. Some people inherit the condition (that is, their parents pass the genes for PH on to them). In some cases, the cause isn't known.
                
Outlook
                
PH has no cure. However, research for new treatments is ongoing. The earlier PH is treated, the easier it is to control.
                
Treatments include medicines, procedures, and other therapies. These treatments can relieve PH symptoms and slow the progress of the disease. Lifestyle changes also can help control symptoms."
1459,What is (are) Ulcerative Colitis ?,"Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a disease that causes inflammation and sores, called ulcers, in the lining of the rectum and colon. It is one of a group of diseases called inflammatory bowel disease.    UC can happen at any age, but it usually starts between the ages of 15 and 30. It tends to run in families. The most common symptoms are pain in the abdomen and blood or pus in diarrhea. Other symptoms may include       - Anemia    - Severe tiredness    - Weight loss    - Loss of appetite    - Bleeding from the rectum    - Sores on the skin    - Joint pain    - Growth failure in children       About half of people with UC have mild symptoms.    Doctors use blood tests, stool tests, colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy, and imaging tests to diagnose UC. Several types of drugs can help control it. Some people have long periods of remission, when they are free of symptoms. In severe cases, doctors must remove the colon.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1460,How to diagnose Childhood Ependymoma ?,"Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to detect (find) childhood ependymoma. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Neurological exam : A series of questions and tests to check the brain, spinal cord, and nerve function. The exam checks a persons mental status, coordination, and ability to walk normally, and how well the muscles, senses, and reflexes work. This may also be called a neuro exam or a neurologic exam.    -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) with gadolinium : A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the brain and spinal cord. A substance called gadolinium is injected into a vein and travels through the bloodstream. The gadolinium collects around the cancer cells so they show up brighter in the picture. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   Lumbar puncture : A procedure used to collect cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the spinal column. This is done by placing a needle between two bones in the spine and into the CSF around the spinal cord and removing a sample of fluid. The sample of CSF is checked under a microscope for signs of tumor cells. The sample may also be checked for the amounts of protein and glucose. A higher than normal amount of protein or lower than normal amount of glucose may be a sign of a tumor. This procedure is also called an LP or spinal tap.
                    Childhood ependymoma is diagnosed and removed in surgery. If the diagnostic tests show there may be a brain tumor, a biopsy is done by removing part of the skull and using a needle to remove a sample of the brain tissue. A pathologist views the tissue under a microscope to look for cancer cells. If cancer cells are found, the doctor will remove as much tumor as safely possible during the same surgery.     The following test may be done on the tissue that was removed:         -   Immunohistochemistry : A test that uses antibodies to check for certain antigens in a sample of tissue. The antibody is usually linked to a radioactive substance or a dye that causes the tissue to light up under a microscope. This type of test may be used to tell the difference between brain stem glioma and other brain tumors.         An MRI is often done after the tumor is removed to find out whether any tumor remains."
1461,What are the treatments for septo-optic dysplasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of septo-optic dysplasia:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Septo-optic dysplasia sequence  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Growth Hormone Deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hypopituitarism   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1462,What to do for What I need to know about Preparing for Pregnancy if I Have Diabetes ?,"- If you have diabetes, the best time to control your blood glucose, also called blood sugar, is before you get pregnant. High blood glucose levels can be harmful to your baby during the first weeks of pregnancyeven before you know you are pregnant.  - Keeping your blood glucose as close to normal as possible before and during your pregnancy is the most important thing you can do to stay healthy and have a healthy baby.  - Before you get pregnant, you can plan and prepare for having a healthy pregnancy and a healthy baby. If you have diabetes and are already pregnant, you can make sure you are doing everything you can to take care of yourself and your diabetes during your pregnancy.  - Regular visits with members of a health care team who are experts in diabetes and pregnancy will ensure you get the best care. Your health care team can help you learn how to use a healthy eating plan, physical activity, and medicines to reach your blood glucose targets before and during pregnancy.  - During pregnancy, the safest diabetes medicine is insulin. Your health care team will work with you to make a personalized insulin routine. Some medicines are not safe during pregnancy and should be stopped before you get pregnant. Your doctor can tell you which medicines to stop taking.  - You will have tests throughout your pregnancy to check your baby's health.  - You can give your baby a healthy start by breastfeeding."
1463,Who is at risk for Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumors? ?,Age and gender can affect the risk of extragonadal germ cell tumors. Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Having a risk factor does not mean that you will get cancer; not having risk factors doesnt mean that you will not get cancer. Talk with your doctor if you think you may be at risk. Risk factors for malignant extragonadal germ cell tumors include the following:         - Being male.    - Being age 20 or older.    - Having Klinefelter syndrome.
1464,What is (are) Childhood Ependymoma ?,"Key Points
                    - Childhood ependymoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the brain and spinal cord.    - There are different types of ependymomas.    - The part of the brain that is affected depends on where the ependymoma forms.    - The cause of most childhood brain tumors is unknown.    - The signs and symptoms of childhood ependymoma are not the same in every child.    - Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to detect (find) childhood ependymoma.    - Childhood ependymoma is diagnosed and removed in surgery.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Childhood ependymoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the brain and spinal cord.
                    The brain controls vital functions such as memory and learning, emotion, and the senses (hearing, sight, smell, taste, and touch). The spinal cord is made up of bundles of nerve fibers that connect the brain with nerves in most parts of the body.    Ependymomas form from ependymal cells that line the ventricles and passageways in the brain and the spinal cord. Ependymal cells make cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).    This summary is about the treatment of primary brain tumors (tumors that begin in the brain). Treatment of metastatic brain tumors, which are tumors that begin in other parts of the body and spread to the brain, is not discussed in this summary.    There are many different types of brain tumors. Brain tumors can occur in both children and adults. However, treatment for children is different than treatment for adults. See the following PDQ summaries for more information:         -  Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Treatment Overview     -  Adult Central Nervous System Tumors Treatment
                
                
                    There are different types of ependymomas.
                    The World Health Organization (WHO) groups ependymal tumors into five main subtypes:         - Subependymoma (WHO Grade I).    - Myxopapillary ependymoma (WHO Grade I).    - Ependymoma (WHO Grade II).    -  RELA fusionpositive ependymoma (WHO Grade II or Grade III with change in the RELA gene).    - Anaplastic ependymoma (WHO Grade III).        The grade of a tumor describes how abnormal the cancer cells look under a microscope and how quickly the tumor is likely to grow and spread. Low-grade (Grade I) cancer cells look more like normal cells than high-grade cancer cells (Grade II and III). They also tend to grow and spread more slowly than Grade II and III cancer cells.
                
                
                    The part of the brain that is affected depends on where the ependymoma forms.
                    Ependymomas can form anywhere in the fluid -filled ventricles and passageways in the brain and spinal cord. Most ependymomas form in the fourth ventricle and affect the cerebellum and the brain stem.      Once an ependymoma forms, areas of the brain that may be affected include:          -  Cerebrum: The largest part of the brain, at the top of the head. The cerebrum controls thinking, learning, problem-solving, speech, emotions, reading, writing, and voluntary movement.     -  Cerebellum: The lower, back part of the brain (near the middle of the back of the head). The cerebellum controls movement, balance, and posture.     -  Brain stem: The part that connects the brain to the spinal cord, in the lowest part of the brain (just above the back of the neck). The brain stem controls breathing, heart rate, and the nerves and muscles used in seeing, hearing, walking, talking, and eating.    -  Spinal cord: The column of nerve tissue that runs from the brain stem down the center of the back. It is covered by three thin layers of tissue called membranes. The spinal cord and membranes are surrounded by the vertebrae (back bones). Spinal cord nerves carry messages between the brain and the rest of the body, such as a message from the brain to cause muscles to move or a message from the skin to the brain to feel touch."
1465,How to diagnose What I need to know about Diarrhea ?,"To find the cause of diarrhea, the health care provider may
                
- perform a physical exam  - ask about any medicines you are taking  - test your stool or blood to look for bacteria, parasites, or other signs of disease or infection  - ask you to stop eating certain foods to see whether your diarrhea goes away
                
If you have chronic diarrhea, your health care provider may perform other tests to look for signs of disease."
1466,What to do for Autoimmune Hepatitis ?,"- Autoimmune hepatitis is a chronicor long lastingdisease in which the body's immune system attacks the liver and causes inflammation and damage.  - Autoimmune hepatitis is a serious condition that may worsen over time if not treated. Autoimmune hepatitis can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure.  - Autoimmune hepatitis is more common in females. The disease can occur at any age and affects all ethnic groups.  - Autoimmune hepatitis is classified as type 1 or type 2.  - A health care provider will make a diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis based on symptoms, a physical exam, blood tests, and a liver biopsy.  - A person usually needs blood tests for an exact diagnosis because a person with autoimmune hepatitis can have the same symptoms as those of other liver diseases or metabolic disorders.  - Treatment for autoimmune hepatitis includes medication to suppress, or slow down, an overactive immune system.  - Treatment works best when autoimmune hepatitis is diagnosed early.  - People with autoimmune hepatitis generally respond to standard treatment and the disease can be controlled in most cases.  - In some people, autoimmune hepatitis progresses to cirrhosis and end-stage liver failure, and a liver transplant may be necessary."
1467,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a way of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.       Immunotherapy     Immunotherapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biologic therapy or biotherapy.    There are different types of immunotherapy:            -  Immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy uses the body's immune system to kill cancer cells. Two types of immune checkpoint inhibitors are being studied in the treatment of childhood rhabdomyosarcoma that has come back after treatment:                  -  CTLA-4 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When CTLA-4 attaches to another protein called B7 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. CTLA-4 inhibitors attach to CTLA-4 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Ipilimumab is a type of CTLA-4 inhibitor.       -  PD-1 is a protein on the surface of T cells that helps keep the bodys immune responses in check. When PD-1 attaches to another protein called PDL-1 on a cancer cell, it stops the T cell from killing the cancer cell. PD-1 inhibitors attach to PDL-1 and allow the T cells to kill cancer cells. Nivolumab and pembrolizumab are PD-1 inhibitors.                -  Vaccine therapy is a type of immunotherapy being studied to treat metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma.              Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation do. There are different types of targeted therapy:            -  mTOR inhibitors stop the protein that helps cells divide and survive. Sirolimus is a type of mTOR inhibitor therapy being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.     -  Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are small-molecule drugs that go through the cell membrane and work inside cancer cells to block signals that cancer cells need to grow and divide. MK-1775 is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.     -  Antibody-drug conjugates are made up of a monoclonal antibody attached to a drug. The monoclonal antibody binds to specific proteins or receptors found on certain cells, including cancer cells. The drug enters these cells and kills them without harming other cells. Lorvotuzumab mertansine is an antibody-drug conjugate being studied in the treatment of recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials."
1468,Is Russell-Silver syndrome inherited ?,"Most cases of Russell-Silver syndrome are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  Less commonly, Russell-Silver syndrome can run in families. In some affected families, the condition appears to have an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of a genetic change in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In other families, the condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of a gene are altered in each cell. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1469,What is (are) Mabry syndrome ?,"Mabry syndrome is a condition characterized by intellectual disability, distinctive facial features, increased levels of an enzyme called alkaline phosphatase in the blood (hyperphosphatasia), and other signs and symptoms.  People with Mabry syndrome have intellectual disability that is often moderate to severe. They typically have little to no speech development and are delayed in the development of motor skills (such as sitting, crawling, and walking). Many affected individuals have low muscle tone (hypotonia) and develop recurrent seizures (epilepsy) in early childhood. Seizures are usually the generalized tonic-clonic type, which involve muscle rigidity, convulsions, and loss of consciousness.  Individuals with Mabry syndrome have distinctive facial features that include wide-set eyes (hypertelorism), long openings of the eyelids (long palpebral fissures), a nose with a broad bridge and a rounded tip, downturned corners of the mouth, and a thin upper lip. These facial features usually become less pronounced over time.  Hyperphosphatasia begins within the first year of life in people with Mabry syndrome. There are many different types of alkaline phosphatase found in tissues; the type that is increased in Mabry syndrome is called the tissue non-specific type and is found throughout the body. In affected individuals, alkaline phosphatase levels in the blood are usually increased by one to two times the normal amount, but can be up to 20 times higher than normal. The elevated enzyme levels remain relatively stable over a person's lifetime. Hyperphosphatasia appears to cause no negative health effects, but this finding can help health professionals diagnose Mabry syndrome.  Another common feature of Mabry syndrome is shortened bones at the ends of fingers (brachytelephalangy), which can be seen on x-ray imaging. Underdeveloped fingernails (nail hypoplasia) may also occur. Sometimes, individuals with Mabry syndrome have abnormalities of the digestive system, including narrowing or blockage of the anus (anal stenosis or anal atresia) or Hirschsprung disease, a disorder that causes severe constipation or blockage of the intestine. Rarely, affected individuals experience hearing loss.  The signs and symptoms of Mabry syndrome vary among affected individuals. Those who are least severely affected have only intellectual disability and hyperphosphatasia, without distinctive facial features or the other health problems listed above."
1470,What are the symptoms of Cushing's syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Cushing's syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Cushing's syndrome may include: Upper body obesity Severe fatigue Muscle weakness High blood pressure Backache Elevated blood sugar Easy bruising Bluish-red stretch marks on the skin Neurological issues Women with Cushing's syndrome may also experience increased growth of facial and body hair, and menstrual periods may become irregular or cease. Men may have decreased fertility, diminished sexual desire, and/or erectile dysfunction. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cushing's syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of adipose tissue 90% Erectile abnormalities 90% Hypercortisolism 90% Round face 90% Thin skin 90% Truncal obesity 90% Acne 50% Bruising susceptibility 50% Decreased fertility 50% Diabetes mellitus 50% Hypertension 50% Hypertrichosis 50% Hypokalemia 50% Muscle weakness 50% Nephrolithiasis 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Striae distensae 50% Abdominal pain 7.5% Abnormal renal physiology 7.5% Abnormality of lipid metabolism 7.5% Abnormality of the gastric mucosa 7.5% Aseptic necrosis 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Hypercalcemia 7.5% Hypernatremia 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Myopathy 7.5% Neoplasm of the adrenal gland 7.5% Reduced consciousness/confusion 7.5% Secondary amenorrhea 7.5% Sleep disturbance 7.5% Telangiectasia of the skin 7.5% Adult onset - Agitation - Anxiety - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased circulating ACTH level - Depression - Increased circulating cortisol level - Kyphosis - Macronodular adrenal hyperplasia - Mental deterioration - Mood changes - Neoplasm - Osteopenia - Osteoporosis - Primary hypercorticolism - Psychosis - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Sporadic - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1471,Is Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome inherited ?,"Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome is described as autosomal dominant, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. The condition almost always results from new (de novo) gene mutations and occurs in people with no history of the disorder in their family. Very rarely, people with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome have inherited the altered gene from an unaffected parent who has a gene mutation only in their sperm or egg cells. When a mutation is present only in reproductive cells, it is known as germline mosaicism."
1472,How to diagnose Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency ?,"How is alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency diagnosed? Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) may first be suspected in people with evidence of liver disease at any age, or lung disease (such as emphysema), especially when there is no obvious cause or it is diagnosed at a younger age. Confirming the diagnosis involves a blood test showing a low serum concentration of the alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) protein, and either: detecting a functionally deficient AAT protein variant by isoelectric focusing (a method for detecting mutations); or detecting SERPINA1 gene mutations on both copies of the gene with molecular genetic testing. (This confirms the diagnosis when the above-mentioned tests are not performed or their results are not in agreement.) Specialists involved in the diagnosis may include primary care doctors, pulmonologists (lung specialists), and/or hepatologists (liver specialists)."
1473,Is X-linked hypophosphatemia inherited ?,"How is X-linked hypophosphatemia inherited? X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is caused by mutations in the PHEX gene, and is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. This means that the gene responsible for the condition is located on the X chromosome, and having only one mutated copy of the gene is enough to cause the condition in both males and females. A female with XLH has a 50% chance of passing along a mutation to each of her children. Since males only have one X-chromosome, a male with XLH will pass along the condition to all of his daughters, but not to his sons. PHEX mutations are inherited through families, but they can also occur spontaneously, explaining why some people with XLH may not have a previous family history."
1474,What is (are) myopathy with deficiency of iron-sulfur cluster assembly enzyme ?,"Myopathy with deficiency of iron-sulfur cluster assembly enzyme is an inherited disorder that primarily affects muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). This condition does not usually affect other types of muscle, such as the heart (cardiac) muscle.  From early childhood, affected individuals experience extreme fatigue in response to physical activity (exercise intolerance). Mild exertion results in a rapid heartbeat (tachycardia), shortness of breath, and muscle weakness and pain. However, people with this condition typically have normal muscle strength when they are at rest.  Prolonged or recurrent physical activity causes more severe signs and symptoms, including a breakdown of muscle tissue (rhabdomyolysis). The destruction of muscle tissue releases a protein called myoglobin, which is processed by the kidneys and released in the urine (myoglobinuria). Myoglobin causes the urine to be red or brown. This protein can also damage the kidneys, in some cases leading to life-threatening kidney failure.  In most affected individuals, the muscle problems associated with this condition do not worsen with time. However, at least two people with a severe variant of this disorder have experienced progressive muscle weakness and wasting starting in childhood."
1475,What are the symptoms of Osteoarthropathy of fingers familial ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Osteoarthropathy of fingers familial? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Osteoarthropathy of fingers familial. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Abnormality of the metaphyses 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Broad phalanx - Short phalanx of finger - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1476,What are the genetic changes related to Lenz microphthalmia syndrome ?,"Mutations in at least two genes on the X chromosome are thought to be responsible for Lenz microphthalmia syndrome. Only one of these genes, BCOR, has been identified.  The BCOR gene provides instructions for making a protein called the BCL6 corepressor. This protein helps regulate the activity of other genes. Little is known about the protein's function, although it appears to play an important role in early embryonic development. A mutation in the BCOR gene has been found in one family with Lenz microphthalmia syndrome. This mutation changes the structure of the BCL6 corepressor protein, which disrupts the normal development of the eyes and several other organs and tissues before birth.  Researchers are working to determine whether Lenz microphthalmia syndrome is a single disorder with different genetic causes or two very similar disorders, each caused by mutations in a different gene. They are searching for a second gene on the X chromosome that may underlie additional cases of the disorder."
1477,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dysautonomia ?,"The NINDS supports and conducts research on dysautonomia. This research aims to discover ways to diagnose, treat, and, ultimately, prevent these disorders."
1478,What is (are) Femoral facial syndrome ?,"Femoral-facial syndrome is characterized by underdevelopment of the thigh bones and certain facial features, which may include upslanting eyes, short nose with a broad tip, long space between the nose and upper lip (philtrum), thin upper lip, small or underdeveloped lower jaw (micrognathia), and cleft palate. Symptoms may affect one or both sides of the face and limbs. Cleft palate has been reported only in females. Other signs and symptoms occur variably. Intellectual development has been reported as normal. In most cases the cause of the condition is unknown (sporadic). Some cases have been reported in association with diabetes during pregnancy (maternal diabetes). There have been rare reports (three cases) describing a family with more than one affected member."
1479,What causes Stroke ?,"Ischemic Stroke and Transient Ischemic Attack
                
An ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) occurs if an artery that supplies oxygen-rich blood to the brain becomes blocked. Many medical conditions can increase the risk of ischemic stroke or TIA.
                
For example, atherosclerosis (ath-er-o-skler-O-sis) is a disease in which a fatty substance called plaque builds up on the inner walls of the arteries. Plaque hardens and narrows the arteries, which limits the flow of blood to tissues and organs (such as the heart and brain).
                
Plaque in an artery can crack or rupture (break open). Blood platelets (PLATE-lets), which are disc-shaped cell fragments, stick to the site of the plaque injury and clump together to form blood clots. These clots can partly or fully block an artery.
                
Plaque can build up in any artery in the body, including arteries in the heart, brain, and neck. The two main arteries on each side of the neck are called the carotid (ka-ROT-id) arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to the brain, face, scalp, and neck.
                
When plaque builds up in the carotid arteries, the condition is called carotid artery disease. Carotid artery disease causes many of the ischemic strokes and TIAs that occur in the United States.
                
An embolic stroke (a type of ischemic stroke) or TIA also can occur if a blood clot or piece of plaque breaks away from the wall of an artery. The clot or plaque can travel through the bloodstream and get stuck in one of the brains arteries. This stops blood flow through the artery and damages brain cells.
                
Heart conditions and blood disorders also can cause blood clots that can lead to a stroke or TIA. For example, atrial fibrillation (A-tre-al fi-bri-LA-shun), or AF, is a common cause of embolic stroke.
                
In AF, the upper chambers of the heart contract in a very fast and irregular way. As a result, some blood pools in the heart. The pooling increases the risk of blood clots forming in the heart chambers.
                
An ischemic stroke or TIA also can occur because of lesions caused by atherosclerosis. These lesions may form in the small arteries of the brain, and they can block blood flow to the brain.
                
Hemorrhagic Stroke
                
Sudden bleeding in the brain can cause a hemorrhagic stroke. The bleeding causes swelling of the brain and increased pressure in the skull. The swelling and pressure damage brain cells and tissues.
                
Examples of conditions that can cause a hemorrhagic stroke include high blood pressure, aneurysms, and arteriovenous (ar-TEER-e-o-VE-nus) malformations (AVMs).
                
""Blood pressure"" is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood. If blood pressure rises and stays high over time, it can damage the body in many ways.
                
Aneurysms are balloon-like bulges in an artery that can stretch and burst. AVMs are tangles of faulty arteries and veins that can rupture within the brain. High blood pressure can increase the risk of hemorrhagic stroke in people who have aneurysms or AVMs."
1480,"What are the symptoms of Welander distal myopathy, Swedish type ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Welander distal myopathy, Swedish type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Welander distal myopathy, Swedish type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Myopathy 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Distal amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Mildly elevated creatine phosphokinase - Rimmed vacuoles - Slow progression - Steppage gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1481,What are the treatments for Heart Failure ?,Treatment for heart failure includes lifestyle changes medications specialized care for those in advanced stages of the disease.
1482,How to diagnose GM1 gangliosidosis ?,"Is genetic testing available for GM1 gangliosidosis? Yes. A diagnosis of GM1 gangliosidosis (GM1), can be made by either enzyme analysis of the beta-galactosidase enzyme, or by molecular genetic testing of the GLB1 gene. Despite the availability of molecular genetic testing, the mainstay of diagnosis will likely continue to be enzyme activity because of cost and difficulty in interpreting unclear results. However, enzyme activity may not be predictive of carrier status in relatives of affected people. Carrier testing for at-risk family members is done with molecular genetic testing, and is possible if the disease-causing mutations in the family are already known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) provides information about the labs that offer genetic testing for this condition. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Therefore, patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional."
1483,How many people are affected by 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?,The exact incidence of 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency is unknown; it has been reported in only a small number of people worldwide.
1484,What causes Pneumonia ?,"Many germs can cause pneumonia. Examples include different kinds of bacteria, viruses, and, less often, fungi.
                
Most of the time, the body filters germs out of the air that we breathe to protect the lungs from infection. Your immune system, the shape of your nose and throat, your ability to cough, and fine, hair-like structures called cilia (SIL-e-ah) help stop the germs from reaching your lungs. (For more information, go to the Diseases and Conditions Index How the Lungs Work article.)
                
Sometimes, though, germs manage to enter the lungs and cause infections. This is more likely to occur if:
                
Your immune system is weak
                
A germ is very strong
                
Your body fails to filter germs out of the air that you breathe
                
For example, if you can't cough because you've had a stroke or are sedated, germs may remain in your airways. (""Sedated"" means you're given medicine to make you sleepy.)
                
When germs reach your lungs, your immune system goes into action. It sends many kinds of cells to attack the germs. These cells cause the alveoli (air sacs) to become red and inflamed and to fill up with fluid and pus. This causes the symptoms of pneumonia.
                
Germs That Can Cause Pneumonia
                
Bacteria
                
Bacteria are the most common cause of pneumonia in adults. Some people, especially the elderly and those who are disabled, may get bacterial pneumonia after having the flu or even a common cold.
                
Many types of bacteria can cause pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia can occur on its own or develop after you've had a cold or the flu. This type of pneumonia often affects one lobe, or area, of a lung. When this happens, the condition is called lobar pneumonia.
                
The most common cause of pneumonia in the United States is the bacterium Streptococcus (strep-to-KOK-us) pneumoniae, or pneumococcus (nu-mo-KOK-us).
                
Lobar Pneumonia
                

                
Another type of bacterial pneumonia is called atypical pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia includes:
                
Legionella pneumophila. This type of pneumonia sometimes is called Legionnaire's disease, and it has caused serious outbreaks. Outbreaks have been linked to exposure to cooling towers, whirlpool spas, and decorative fountains.
                
Mycoplasma pneumonia. This is a common type of pneumonia that usually affects people younger than 40 years old. People who live or work in crowded places like schools, homeless shelters, and prisons are at higher risk for this type of pneumonia. It's usually mild and responds well to treatment with antibiotics. However, mycoplasma pneumonia can be very serious. It may be associated with a skin rash and hemolysis (the breakdown of red blood cells).
                
Chlamydophila pneumoniae. This type of pneumonia can occur all year and often is mild. The infection is most common in people 65 to 79 years old.
                
Viruses
                
Respiratory viruses cause up to one-third of the pneumonia cases in the United States each year. These viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in children younger than 5 years old.
                
Most cases of viral pneumonia are mild. They get better in about 1 to 3 weeks without treatment. Some cases are more serious and may require treatment in a hospital.
                
If you have viral pneumonia, you run the risk of getting bacterial pneumonia as well.
                
The flu virus is the most common cause of viral pneumonia in adults. Other viruses that cause pneumonia include respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, herpes simplex virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), and more.
                
Fungi
                
Three types of fungi in the soil in some parts of the United States can cause pneumonia. These fungi are:
                
Coccidioidomycosis (kok-sid-e-OY-do-mi-KO-sis). This fungus is found in Southern California and the desert Southwest.
                
Histoplasmosis (HIS-to-plaz-MO-sis). This fungus is found in the Ohio and Mississippi River Valleys.
                
Cryptococcus (krip-to-KOK-us). This fungus is found throughout the United States in bird droppings and soil contaminated with bird droppings.
                
Most people exposed to these fungi don't get sick, but some do and require treatment.
                
Serious fungal infections are most common in people who have weak immune systems due to the long-term use of medicines to suppress their immune systems or having HIV/AIDS.
                
Pneumocystis jiroveci (nu-mo-SIS-tis ye-RO-VECH-e), formerly Pneumocystis carinii, sometimes is considered a fungal pneumonia. However, it's not treated with the usual antifungal medicines. This type of infection is most common in people who:
                
Have HIV/AIDS or cancer
                
Have had an organ transplant and/or blood and marrow stem cell transplant
                
Take medicines that affect their immune systems
                
Other kinds of fungal infections also can lead to pneumonia."
1485,What are the treatments for otopalatodigital syndrome type 1 ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of otopalatodigital syndrome type 1:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Otopalatodigital Spectrum Disorders  - Genetic Testing Registry: Oto-palato-digital syndrome, type I   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1486,How to diagnose Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?,"Once the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism is established, other tests may be done to assess complications:
                
- Bone mineral density test. Dual energy x-ray absorptiometry, sometimes called a DXA or DEXA scan, uses low-dose x rays to measure bone density. During the test, a person lies on a padded table while a technician moves the scanner over the persons body. DXA scans are performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician and may be interpreted by a metabolic bone disease expert or radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imagingor other specialists; anesthesia is not needed. The test can help assess bone loss and risk of fractures.  - Ultrasound. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. The procedure is performed in a health care providers office, outpatient center, or hospital by a specially trained technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed. The images can show the presence of kidney stones.  - Computerized tomography (CT) scan. CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create three-dimensional (3-D) images. A CT scan may include the injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. CT scans require the person to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. The procedure is performed in an outpatient center or hospital by an x-ray technician, and the images are interpreted by a radiologist; anesthesia is not needed. CT scans can show the presence of kidney stones.  - Urine collection. A 24-hour urine collection may be done to measure selected chemicals, such as calcium and creatinine, which is a waste product healthy kidneys remove. The person collects urine over a 24-hour period, and the urine is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The urine collection may provide information on kidney damage, the risk of kidney stone formation, and the risk of familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia.  - 25-hydroxy-vitamin D blood test. This test is recommended because vitamin D deficiency is common in people with primary hyperparathyroidism."
1487,What are the treatments for What I need to know about My Child's Urinary Tract Infection ?,"Bacteria-fighting medicines called antibiotics are used to treat a UTI. While the lab is doing the urine culture, the health care provider may begin treatment with an antibiotic that treats the bacteria most likely to be causing the infection. Once culture results are known, the health care provider may switch your child to a different antibiotic that targets the specific type of bacteria.
                
Your child will need to take antibiotics for at least 3 to 5 days and maybe as long as several weeks. Be sure your child takes every pill or every dose of liquid. Your child should feel better after a couple of days, but the infection might come back if your child stops taking the antibiotic too early.
                
You should let your child drink as much as your child wants. But dont force your child to drink large amounts of fluid. Call your childs health care provider if your child doesnt want to or isnt able to drink. Also, talk with your childs health care provider if your child needs medicine for the pain of a UTI. The health care provider can recommend an over-the-counter pain medicine. A heating pad on the back or abdomen may also help."
1488,How many people are affected by Refsum disease ?,"The prevalence of Refsum disease is unknown, although the condition is thought to be uncommon."
1489,What are the symptoms of Limbic encephalitis ?,"What symptoms are associated with limbic encephalitis? Although the symptoms of the condition may vary from person to person, the cardinal sign of limbic encephalitis is severe impairment of short-term memory, with most patients having difficulties in recall.  A large variety of symptoms may be associated with limbic encephalitis such as anterograde amnesia (the inability to store new memories after the onset of the condition), anxiety, depression, irritability, personality change, acute confusional state, hallucinations and seizures.  Other possible symptoms may include obsessiveness, hyperthermia (increase in body temperature), weight change, hypersomnia, endocrine dysfunction, aphasia, and apraxia.  The symptoms associated with limbic encephalitis can develop over a few days, weeks, or months.  It is important to note the neurological symptoms generally precede diagnosis of the malignancy in 60%-75% of patients that have paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis."
1490,What are the symptoms of Ichthyosis alopecia eclabion ectropion mental retardation ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ichthyosis alopecia eclabion ectropion mental retardation? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ichthyosis alopecia eclabion ectropion mental retardation. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eyelid 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Alopecia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Ichthyosis 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Gait disturbance 50% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Ectropion - Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1491,What are the genetic changes related to Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome ?,"Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome is caused by mutations in the PSMB8 gene. This gene provides instructions for making one part (subunit) of specialized cell structures called immunoproteasomes, which are found primarily in immune system cells. Immunoproteasomes play an important role in regulating the immune system's response to foreign invaders, such as viruses and bacteria. One of the primary functions of immunoproteasomes is to help the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders, so the immune system can respond appropriately to infection.  Mutations in the PSMB8 gene greatly reduce the amount of protein produced from the PSMB8 gene, which impairs the normal assembly of immunoproteasomes and causes the immune system to malfunction. For unknown reasons, the malfunctioning immune system triggers abnormal inflammation that can damage the body's own tissues and organs; as a result, Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome is classified as an autoinflammatory disorder.  Abnormal inflammation likely underlies many of the signs and symptoms of Nakajo-Nishimura syndrome, including the nodular erythema, recurrent fevers, joint problems, and hepatosplenomegaly. It is less clear how mutations in the PSMB8 gene lead to muscle wasting and lipodystrophy. Studies suggest that the protein produced from the PSMB8 gene may play a separate role in the maturation of fat cells (adipocytes), and a shortage of this protein may interfere with the normal development and function of these cells."
1492,What are the genetic changes related to Wagner syndrome ?,"Mutations in the VCAN gene cause Wagner syndrome. The VCAN gene provides instructions for making a protein called versican. Versican is found in the extracellular matrix, which is the intricate lattice of proteins and other molecules that forms in the spaces between cells. Versican interacts with many of these proteins and molecules to facilitate the assembly of the extracellular matrix and ensure its stability. Within the eye, versican interacts with other proteins to maintain the structure and gel-like consistency of the vitreous.  VCAN gene mutations that cause Wagner syndrome lead to insufficient levels of versican in the vitreous. Without enough versican to interact with the many proteins of the vitreous, the structure becomes unstable. This lack of stability in the vitreous affects other areas of the eye and contributes to the vision problems that occur in people with Wagner syndrome. It is unknown why VCAN gene mutations seem solely to affect vision."
1493,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Essential Tremor ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, a unit of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the nation's leading federal funder of research on disorders of the brain and nervous system. The NINDS sponsors research on tremor both at its facilities at the NIH and through grants to medical centers.
                
Scientists at the NINDS are evaluating the effectiveness of 1-octanol, a substance similar to alcohol but less intoxicating, for treating essential tremor. Results of two previous NIH studies have shown this agent to be promising as a potential new treatment.
                
Scientists are also studying the effectiveness of botulinum toxin as a treatment for a variety of involuntary movement disorders, including essential tremor of the hand."
1494,What is (are) Gilbert syndrome ?,"Gilbert syndrome is a common, mild liver disorder in which the liver doesn't properly process bilirubin, a substance produced by the breakdown of red blood cells. Gilbert syndrome typically doesn't require treatment or pose serious complications. In fact, Gilbert syndrome is usually not considered a disease because of its benign nature. Many individuals find out they have the disorder by accident, when they have a blood test that shows elevated bilirubin levels. More males than females have been diagnosed with Gilbert syndrome. This condition is caused by mutations in the UGT1A1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern."
1495,What is (are) leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter ?,"Leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is a progressive disorder that mainly affects the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system). This disorder causes deterioration of the central nervous system's white matter, which consists of nerve fibers covered by myelin. Myelin is the fatty substance that insulates and protects nerves.  In most cases, people with leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter show no signs or symptoms of the disorder at birth. Affected children may have slightly delayed development of motor skills such as crawling or walking. During early childhood, most affected individuals begin to develop motor symptoms, including abnormal muscle stiffness (spasticity) and difficulty with coordinating movements (ataxia). There may also be some deterioration of mental functioning, but this is not usually as pronounced as the motor symptoms. Some affected females may have abnormal development of the ovaries (ovarian dysgenesis). Specific changes in the brain as seen using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are characteristic of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter, and may be visible before the onset of symptoms.  While childhood onset is the most common form of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter, some severe forms are apparent at birth. A severe, early-onset form seen among the Cree and Chippewayan populations of Quebec and Manitoba is called Cree leukoencephalopathy. Milder forms may not become evident until adolescence or adulthood, when behavioral or psychiatric problems may be the first signs of the disease. Some females with milder forms of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter who survive to adolescence exhibit ovarian dysfunction. This variant of the disorder is called ovarioleukodystrophy.  Progression of leukoencephalopathy with vanishing white matter is generally uneven, with periods of relative stability interrupted by episodes of rapid decline. People with this disorder are particularly vulnerable to stresses such as infection, mild head trauma or other injury, or even extreme fright. These stresses may trigger the first symptoms of the condition or worsen existing symptoms, and can cause affected individuals to become lethargic or comatose."
1496,What is (are) Todd's Paralysis ?,"Todd's paralysis is a neurological condition experienced by individuals with epilepsy, in which a seizure is followed by a brief period of temporary paralysis. The paralysis may be partial or complete but usually occurs on just one side of the body. The paralysis can last from half an hour to 36 hours, with an average of 15 hours, at which point it resolves completely. Todd's paralysis may also affect speech and vision. Scientists don't know what causes Todd's paralysis. Current theories propose biological processes in the brain that involve a slow down in either the energy output of neurons or in the motor centers of the brain. It is important to distinguish Todd's paralysis from a stroke, which it can resemble, because a stroke requires completely different treatment."
1497,What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar degeneration and corneal dystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar degeneration and corneal dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar degeneration and corneal dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% EEG abnormality 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Incoordination 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Visual impairment 90% Abnormality of movement 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Hypertonia 50% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 50% Ptosis 50% Scoliosis 50% Triangular face 50% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Corneal dystrophy - Intellectual disability - Severe visual impairment - Spinocerebellar tract degeneration - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1498,What are the treatments for Headache ?,"When headaches occur three or more times a month, preventive treatment is usually recommended. Drug therapy, biofeedback training, stress reduction, and elimination of certain foods from the diet are the most common methods of preventing and controlling migraine and other vascular headaches. Regular exercise, such as swimming or vigorous walking, can also reduce the frequency and severity of migraine headaches. Drug therapy for migraine is often combined with biofeedback and relaxation training. One of the most commonly used drugs for the relief of migraine symptoms is sumatriptan. Drugs used to prevent migraine also include methysergide maleate, which counteracts blood vessel constriction; propranolol hydrochloride, which also reduces the frequency and severity of migraine headaches; ergotamine tartrate, a vasoconstrictor that helps counteract the painful dilation stage of the headache; amitriptyline, an antidepressant; valproic acid, an anticonvulsant; and verapamil, a calcium channel blocker."
1499,How many people are affected by 21-hydroxylase deficiency ?,"The classic forms of 21-hydroxylase deficiency occur in 1 in 15,000 newborns. The prevalence of the non-classic form of 21-hydroxylase deficiency is estimated to be 1 in 1,000 individuals. The prevalence of both classic and non-classic forms varies among different ethnic populations.  21-hydroxylase deficiency is one of a group of disorders known as congenital adrenal hyperplasias that impair hormone production and disrupt sexual development. 21-hydroxylase deficiency is responsible for about 95 percent of all cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia."
1500,How to prevent Diabetic Heart Disease ?,"Taking action to control risk factors can help prevent or delay heart disease in people who have diabetes and in those who don't. Your risk of heart disease increases with the number of risk factors you have.
                
One step you can take is to adopt a healthy lifestyle. A healthy lifestyle should be part of a lifelong approach to healthy living. A healthy lifestyle includes:
                
Following a healthy diet
                
Maintaining a healthy weight
                
Being physically active
                
Quitting smoking
                
Managing stress
                
You also should know your family history of diabetes and heart disease. If you or someone in your family has diabetes, heart disease, or both, let your doctor know.
                
Your doctor may prescribe medicines to control certain risk factors, such as high blood pressure and high blood cholesterol. Take all of your medicines exactly as your doctor advises.
                
People who have diabetes also need good blood sugar control. Controlling your blood sugar level is good for heart health. Ask your doctor about the best ways to control your blood sugar level.
                
For more information about lifestyle changes and medicines, go to ""How Is Diabetic Heart Disease Treated?"""
1501,What are the treatments for Noonan syndrome ?,How might Noonan syndrome be treated? Management generally focuses on the specific signs and symptoms present in each person. Treatments for the complications of Noonan syndrome (such as cardiovascular abnormalities) are generally standard and do not differ from treatment in the general population. Developmental disabilities are addressed by early intervention programs and individualized education strategies. Treatment for serious bleeding depends upon the specific factor deficiency or platelet abnormality. Growth hormone treatment increases growth velocity. More detailed information about treatment for Noonan syndrome can be viewed on the GeneReviews Web site.
1502,What are the treatments for Progressive hemifacial atrophy ?,How might progressive hemifacial atrophy  be treated?
1503,What is (are) malignant hyperthermia ?,"Malignant hyperthermia is a severe reaction to particular drugs that are often used during surgery and other invasive procedures. Specifically, this reaction occurs in response to some anesthetic gases, which are used to block the sensation of pain, and with a muscle relaxant that is used to temporarily paralyze a person during a surgical procedure. If given these drugs, people at risk for malignant hyperthermia may experience muscle rigidity, breakdown of muscle fibers (rhabdomyolysis), a high fever, increased acid levels in the blood and other tissues (acidosis), and a rapid heart rate. Without prompt treatment, the complications of malignant hyperthermia can be life-threatening.  People at increased risk for this disorder are said to have malignant hyperthermia susceptibility. Affected individuals may never know they have the condition unless they undergo testing or have a severe reaction to anesthesia during a surgical procedure. While this condition often occurs in people without other serious medical problems, certain inherited muscle diseases (including central core disease and multiminicore disease) are associated with malignant hyperthermia susceptibility."
1504,What is (are) Isovaleric acidemia ?,"Isovaleric acidemia (IVA) is a type of organic acid disorder in which affected individuals have problems breaking down an amino acid called leucine from the food they eat. Signs and symptoms may range from very mild to life-threatening. In severe cases, symptoms begin within a few days of birth and include poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and lack of energy (lethargy); these may progress to more serious medical problems including seizures, coma, and possibly death. In other cases, signs and symptoms appear during childhood and may come and go over time. A characteristic sign of IVA is a distinctive odor of sweaty feet during acute illness. Other features may include failure to thrive or delayed development. IVA is caused by mutations in the IVD gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment involves moderate restriction of proteins in the diet and oral administration of glycine and L-carnitine which helps to rid the body of excess isovaleric acid."
1505,Do you have information about Sports Fitness,"Summary : Sports can be a great way to get in shape or stay that way. Having a specific goal can be a great motivator. Physically, you need strength and endurance. Your training will vary with your sport. You would not train the same way for pole vaulting as for swimming. You might, however, cross train. Cross training simply means that you include a variety of fitness activities in your program. Research shows that cross training builds stronger bones.     Remember to listen to your body. If you frequently feel exhausted or you are in pain, you may be overdoing it. Injuries can be the result. And be sure that you use your body and your equipment safely. What you eat and drink is also important. Water is the most important nutrient for active people. Drink it before, during and after workouts."
1506,What are the treatments for Hailey-Hailey disease ?,"How might Hailey-Hailey disease be treated? There is no specific treatment for Hailey-Hailey disease and management generally focuses on the specific symptoms and severity in each person. Affected people are encouraged to avoid ""triggers"" such as sunburn, sweating, and friction, and to keep the affected areas dry. Sunscreen, loose clothing, moisturizing creams, and avoiding excessive heat may help prevent outbreaks. Trying to prevent bacterial, viral, and fungal infections in the affected areas is also important, and drugs used to treat or prevent these infections are commonly used. Topical medications (such as mild corticosteroid creams and topical antibiotics) may improve symptoms in milder forms. Cool compresses and dressings may also help. More severe cases may require systemic antibiotics and/or stronger corticosteroid creams. Carbon dioxide laser treatment may be effective for severe forms. In very severe cases, surgery can be performed to remove the affected skin, but skin grafts are usually necessary to repair the wounds."
1507,What are the treatments for Parasites - Trichinellosis (also known as Trichinosis) ?,"Safe and effective prescription drugs are available to treat both Trichinella infection and the symptoms that occur as a result of infection. Treatment should begin as soon as possible; a doctor will make the decision to treat based upon symptoms, exposure to raw or undercooked meat, and laboratory test results.
    
More on: Resources For Health Professionals: Treatment"
1508,What is (are) Weaver syndrome ?,"Weaver syndrome is a rare condition that is characterized primarily by tall stature. Other signs and symptoms of the condition may include macrocephaly (unusually large head size); intellectual disability; distinctive facial features; camptodactyly (permanently bent digits) of the fingers and/or toes; poor coordination; soft and doughy skin; umbilical hernia; abnormal muscle tone; and a hoarse, low-pitched cry during infancy. Some studies also suggest that people affected by Weaver syndrome may have an increased risk of developing neuroblastoma. Weaver syndrome is usually caused by changes (mutations) in the EZH2 gene. Although the condition is considered autosomal dominant, most cases occur as de novo mutations in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1509,Is glycogen storage disease type IX inherited ?,"GSD IX can have different inheritance patterns depending on the genetic cause of the condition.  When caused by mutations in the PHKA1 or PHKA2 gene, GSD IX is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. These genes are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. However, some women with one altered copy of the PHKA2 gene have signs and symptoms of GSD IX, such as mild hepatomegaly or short stature in childhood. These features are usually mild but can be more severe in rare cases. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.  When the condition is caused by mutations in the PHKB or PHKG2 gene, it is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1510,Is MYH9-related disorder inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.  In most cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Approximately 30 percent of cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1511,What are the symptoms of Pitt-Hopkins-like syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pitt-Hopkins-like syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pitt-Hopkins-like syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Epileptic encephalopathy 75% Broad-based gait 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Constipation - Drooling - Feeding difficulties - Gastroesophageal reflux - Hyperventilation - Intellectual disability, severe - Muscular hypotonia - Protruding tongue - Pulmonic stenosis - Scoliosis - Strabismus - Wide mouth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1512,What is (are) Childhood Brain Tumors ?,"Brain tumors are abnormal growths inside the skull. They are among the most common types of childhood cancers. Some are benign tumors, which aren't cancer. They can still be serious. Malignant tumors are cancerous.    Childhood brain and spinal cord tumors can cause headaches and other symptoms. However, other conditions can also cause the same symptoms. Check with a doctor if your child has any of the following problems:       - Morning headache or headache that goes away after vomiting    - Frequent nausea and vomiting    - Vision, hearing, and speech problems    - Loss of balance or trouble walking    - Unusual sleepiness    - Personality changes    - Seizures    - Increased head size in infants       The symptoms are not the same in every child.    Doctors use physical and neurological exams, lab tests, and imaging to diagnose brain tumors. Most childhood brain tumors are diagnosed and removed in surgery.    Treatment for children is sometimes different than for an adult. Long-term side effects are an important issue. The options also depend on the type of tumor and where it is. Removal of the tumor is often possible. If not, radiation, chemotherapy, or both may be used.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
1513,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Cerebral Atrophy ?,"The NINDS funds research looking at many of the diseases and disorders that cause cerebral atrophy. Understanding the biological mechanisms that cause neurons to die in the brain will help researchers find ways to prevent, treat, and even cure the diseases that lead to cerebral atrophy."
1514,What are the symptoms of Al Gazali Sabrinathan Nair syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Al Gazali Sabrinathan Nair syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Al Gazali Sabrinathan Nair syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Optic atrophy 90% Recurrent fractures 90% Seizures 90% Wormian bones 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1515,What is (are) Hypersomnia ?,"Hypersomnia is characterized by recurrent episodes of excessive daytime sleepiness or prolonged nighttime sleep. Different from feeling tired due to lack of or interrupted sleep at night, persons with hypersomnia are compelled to nap repeatedly during the day, often at inappropriate times such as at work, during a meal, or in conversation. These daytime naps usually provide no relief from symptoms. Patients often have difficulty waking from a long sleep, and may feel disoriented. Other symptoms may include anxiety, increased irritation, decreased energy, restlessness, slow thinking, slow speech, loss of appetite, hallucinations, and memory difficulty. Some patients lose the ability to function in family, social, occupational, or other settings. Hypersomnia may be caused by another sleep disorder (such as narcolepsy or sleep apnea), dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system, or drug or alcohol abuse. In some cases it results from a physical problem, such as a tumor, head trauma, or injury to the central nervous system. Certain medications, or medicine withdrawal, may also cause hypersomnia. Medical conditions including multiple sclerosis, depression, encephalitis, epilepsy, or obesity may contribute to the disorder. Some people appear to have a genetic predisposition to hypersomnia; in others, there is no known cause. Typically, hypersomnia is first recognized in adolescence or young adulthood."
1516,What are the stages of Childhood Ependymoma ?,"Key Points
                    - The area where the tumor is found and the childs age are used in place of a staging system to plan cancer treatment.    - The information from tests and procedures done to detect (find) childhood ependymoma is used to plan cancer treatment.
                
                
                    The area where the tumor is found and the childs age are used in place of a staging system to plan cancer treatment.
                    Staging is the process used to find out how much cancer there is and if cancer has spread. There is no standard staging system for childhood ependymoma. Treatment is based on where the cancer is in the body and the age of the child.
                
                
                    The information from tests and procedures done to detect (find) childhood ependymoma is used to plan cancer treatment.
                    Some of the tests used to detect childhood ependymoma are repeated after the tumor is removed by surgery. (See the General Information section.) This is to find out how much tumor remains after surgery."
1517,How many people are affected by atelosteogenesis type 2 ?,Atelosteogenesis type 2 is an extremely rare genetic disorder; its incidence is unknown.
1518,What is (are) Autosomal recessive pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 ?,"Autosomal recessive pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 is a disorder of electrolyte metabolism characterized by excess loss of salt in the urine and high concentrations of sodium in sweat, stool, and saliva. The disorder involves multiple organ systems and is especially dangerous in the newborn period. Laboratory tests may show hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, and increased plasma renin activity with high levels of aldosterone in the blood. Respiratory tract infections are common in affected children. Treatment involves aggressive salt replacement and control of hyperkalemia. The disorder may become less severe with age. Autosomal recessive pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1B) is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner and is caused by mutations in the genes coding for the subunits of the amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (SCNN1A, SCNN1B and SCNN1G)."
1519,What are the treatments for Mycosis Fungoides and the Szary Syndrome ?,"Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome cancer.     - Six types of standard treatment are used:         - Photodynamic therapy      - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy      - Other drug therapy     - Biologic therapy     - Targeted therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.          - High-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell transplant        - Treatment for mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome may cause side effects.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome cancer.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Six types of standard treatment are used:
                    Photodynamic therapy      Photodynamic therapy is a cancer treatment that uses a drug and a certain type of laser light to kill cancer cells. A drug that is not active until it is exposed to light is injected into a vein. The drug collects more in cancer cells than in normal cells. For skin cancer, laser light is shined onto the skin and the drug becomes active and kills the cancer cells. Photodynamic therapy causes little damage to healthy tissue. Patients undergoing photodynamic therapy will need to limit the amount of time spent in sunlight.     In one type of photodynamic therapy, called psoralen and ultraviolet A (PUVA) therapy, the patient receives a drug called psoralen and then ultraviolet radiation is directed to the skin. In another type of photodynamic therapy, called extracorporeal photochemotherapy, the patient is given drugs and then some blood cells are taken from the body, put under a special ultraviolet A light, and put back into the body.        Radiation therapy      Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome, and may also be used as palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life. Sometimes, total skin electron beam (TSEB) radiation therapy is used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome. This is a type of external radiation treatment in which a radiation therapy machine aims electrons (tiny, invisible particles) at the skin covering the whole body.     Ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation therapy uses a special lamp or laser that directs UVB radiation at the skin.        Chemotherapy      Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Sometimes the chemotherapy is topical (put on the skin in a cream, lotion, or ointment). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma for more information. (Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.)       Other drug therapy     Topical corticosteroids are used to relieve red, swollen, and inflamed skin. They are a type of steroid. Topical corticosteroids may be in a cream, lotion, or ointment.     Retinoids, such as bexarotene, are drugs related to vitamin A that can slow the growth of certain types of cancer cells. The retinoids may be taken by mouth or put on the skin.    See Drugs Approved for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma for more information. (Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.)       Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Interferon is a type of biologic therapy used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome. It interferes with the division of cancer cells and can slow tumor growth.    See Drugs Approved for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma for more information. (Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.)       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Monoclonal antibody therapy and other types of targeted therapies are used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome.     Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome. Monoclonal antibody therapy uses antibodies made in the laboratory, from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.    Other types of monoclonal antibody therapy are being studied in clinical trials to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome.      Vorinostat and romidepsin are two of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome. HDAC inhibitors cause a chemical change that stops tumor cells from dividing.     Pralatrexate is a dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) inhibitor used to treat mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome. It builds up in cancer cells and stops them from using folate, a nutrient needed for cells to divide. Pralatrexate may slow the growth of tumors and kill cancer cells.     See Drugs Approved for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma for more information. (Mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome are types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.)
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     High-dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy with stem cell transplant    This treatment is a method of giving high doses of chemotherapy and radiation therapy and replacing blood-forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the bone marrow or blood of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After therapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the body's blood cells.
                
                
                    Treatment for mycosis fungoides and the Szary syndrome may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                 
							            Treatment Options by Stage
							            
							                
							                    Stage I Mycosis Fungoides
							                    Treatment of stage I mycosis fungoides may include the following:         -  PUVA therapy. Biologic therapy may also be given.    -  Radiation therapy. In some cases, radiation therapy is given to skin lesions, as palliative therapy to reduce tumor size or relieve symptoms and improve quality of life.    -  Topical corticosteroid therapy.    -  Retinoid therapy.    -  Topical or systemic chemotherapy.    - Biologic therapy. Topical chemotherapy may also be given.    -  Targeted therapy.    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Stage II Mycosis Fungoides
							                    Treatment of stage II mycosis fungoides is palliative (to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life) and may include the following:         -  PUVA therapy. Biologic therapy may also be given.    -  Radiation therapy.     -  Topical corticosteroid therapy.    -  Retinoid therapy.    -  Topical or systemic chemotherapy.    - Biologic therapy. Topical chemotherapy may also be given.    -  Targeted therapy.    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage II mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Stage III Mycosis Fungoides
							                    Treatment of stage III mycosis fungoides is palliative (to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life) and may include the following:         -  PUVA therapy. Systemic chemotherapy or biologic therapy may also be given.    -  Extracorporeal photochemotherapy.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  Topical corticosteroid therapy.    -  Retinoid therapy.    - Systemic chemotherapy with one or more drugs. Topical chemotherapy or radiation therapy may also be given.    - Topical chemotherapy.    - Biologic therapy. Topical chemotherapy may also be given.    -  Targeted therapy.    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                
							                
							                    Stage IV Mycosis Fungoides and the Szary Syndrome
							                    Treatment of stage IV mycosis fungoides and stage IV Szary syndrome is palliative (to relieve symptoms and improve the quality of life) and may include the following:         -  PUVA therapy. Systemic chemotherapy or biologic therapy may also be given.    -  Extracorporeal photochemotherapy. Radiation therapy may also be given.    - Radiation therapy.    -  Topical corticosteroid therapy.    -  Retinoid therapy.    - Systemic chemotherapy with one or more drugs, or topical chemotherapy.    -  Biologic therapy. Topical chemotherapy may also be given.    -  Targeted therapy.    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage IV mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website."
1520,How to prevent Lujo Hemorrhagic Fever (LUHF) ?,"Although rodent control would be desirable, it will not be a successful strategy for preventing Lujo hemorrhagic fever cases caused by exposures outdoors. 
   
As for other hemorrhagic fevers, full barrier nursing procedures should be implemented during management of suspected or confirmed LUHF cases (no infection occurred after their implementation in South Africa)."
1521,What is (are) Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?,"The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, composed of wastes and extra fluid. Children produce less urine than adults and the amount produced depends on their age. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through tubes called ureters. The bladder stores urine. When the bladder empties, urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra, located at the bottom of the bladder.
                
Kidneys work at the microscopic level. The kidney is not one large filter. Each kidney is made up of about a million filtering units called nephrons. Each nephron filters a small amount of blood. The nephron includes a filter, called the glomerulus, and a tubule. The nephrons work through a two-step process. The glomerulus lets fluid and waste products pass through it; however, it prevents blood cells and large molecules, mostly proteins, from passing. The filtered fluid then passes through the tubule, which sends needed minerals back to the bloodstream and removes wastes."
1522,Who is at risk for Parasites - Babesiosis? ?,"People can get infected with Babesia parasites in several ways:
    
     - The main way is through the bite of an infected tick—during outdoor activities in areas where babesiosis is found (see below).
     - A less common way is by getting a transfusion from a blood donor who has a Babesia infection but does not have any symptoms. (No tests have been licensed yet for screening blood donors for Babesia.)
     - Rare cases of congenital transmission—from an infected mother to her baby (during pregnancy or delivery)—have been reported.
    
    
Babesia parasites are not transmitted from person-to-person like the flu or the common cold.
    
Many different species (types) of Babesia parasites have been found in animals, only a few of which have been found in people. Babesia microti—which usually infects white-footed mice and other small mammals—is the main species that has been found in people in the United States. Occasional (sporadic) cases of babesiosis caused by other Babesia species have been detected.
    
     
    
    
Babesia microti is transmitted in nature by Ixodes scapularis ticks (also called blacklegged ticks or deer ticks).
    
     - Tickborne transmission primarily occurs in the Northeast and upper Midwest, especially in parts of New England, New York state, New Jersey, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.
     - The parasite typically is spread by the young nymph stage of the tick, which is most apt to be found (seeking or ""questing"" for a blood meal) during warm months (spring and summer), in areas with woods, brush, or grass.
     - Infected people might not recall a tick bite because I. scapularis nymphs are very small (about the size of a poppy seed)."
1523,What is (are) pulmonary veno-occlusive disease ?,"Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD) is characterized by the blockage (occlusion) of the blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich (oxygenated) blood from the lungs to the heart (the pulmonary veins). The occlusion is caused by a buildup of abnormal fibrous tissue in the small veins in the lungs, which narrows the vessels and impairs blood flow. Because blood flow through the lungs is difficult, pressure rises in the vessels that carry blood that needs to be oxygenated to the lungs from the heart (the pulmonary arteries). Increased pressure in these vessels is known as pulmonary arterial hypertension.  The problems with blood flow in PVOD also impair the delivery of oxygenated blood to the rest of the body, which leads to the signs and symptoms of the condition. Shortness of breath (dyspnea) and tiredness (fatigue) during exertion are the most common symptoms of this condition. Other common features include dizziness, a lack of energy (lethargy), difficulty breathing when lying down, and a cough that does not go away. As the condition worsens, affected individuals can develop a bluish tint to the skin (cyanosis), chest pains, fainting spells, and an accumulation of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema).  Certain features commonly seen in people with PVOD can be identified using a test called a CT scan. One of these features, which is seen in the lungs of affected individuals, is an abnormality described as centrilobular ground-glass opacities. Affected individuals also have abnormal thickening of certain tissues in the lungs, which is described as septal lines. In addition, lymph nodes in the chest (mediastinal lymph nodes) are abnormally enlarged in people with PVOD.  PVOD can begin at any age, and the blood flow problems worsen over time. Because of the increased blood pressure in the pulmonary arteries, the heart must work harder than normal to pump blood to the lungs, which can eventually lead to fatal heart failure. Most people with this severe disorder do not live more than 2 years after diagnosis."
1524,What is (are) What I need to know about Hepatitis C ?,"Chronic hepatitis C is a long-lasting infection with the hepatitis C virus. Chronic hepatitis C occurs when the body cant get rid of the hepatitis C virus. Most hepatitis C infections become chronic.
                
Without treatment, chronic hepatitis C can cause liver cancer or severe liver damage that leads to liver failure. Liver failure occurs when the liver stops working properly."
1525,What are the genetic changes related to multiple endocrine neoplasia ?,"Mutations in the MEN1, RET, and CDKN1B genes can cause multiple endocrine neoplasia.  Mutations in the MEN1 gene cause multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. This gene provides instructions for producing a protein called menin. Menin acts as a tumor suppressor, which means it normally keeps cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Although the exact function of menin is unknown, it is likely involved in cell functions such as copying and repairing DNA and regulating the activity of other genes. When mutations inactivate both copies of the MEN1 gene, menin is no longer available to control cell growth and division. The loss of functional menin allows cells to divide too frequently, leading to the formation of tumors characteristic of multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. It is unclear why these tumors preferentially affect endocrine tissues.  Mutations in the RET gene cause multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2. This gene provides instructions for producing a protein that is involved in signaling within cells. The RET protein triggers chemical reactions that instruct cells to respond to their environment, for example by dividing or maturing. Mutations in the RET gene overactivate the protein's signaling function, which can trigger cell growth and division in the absence of signals from outside the cell. This unchecked cell division can lead to the formation of tumors in endocrine glands and other tissues.  Mutations in the CDKN1B gene cause multiple endocrine neoplasia type 4. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called p27. Like the menin protein, p27 is a tumor suppressor that helps control the growth and division of cells. Mutations in the CDKN1B gene reduce the amount of functional p27, which allows cells to grow and divide unchecked. This unregulated cell division can lead to the development of tumors in endocrine glands and other tissues."
1526,Is DOLK-congenital disorder of glycosylation inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1527,What are the genetic changes related to nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita ?,"Nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita can have different causes, and often the cause is unknown. Because the condition is sometimes found in multiple members of a family, it is thought to have a genetic component; however, the genetic factors are not fully understood. Researchers suggest that genes important for skin growth may be involved. It is thought that impairments of skin growth more commonly affect the skin at the top of the head because that region needs to be able to grow quickly to cover the fast-growing skull of a developing baby.  In some cases, nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita is caused by exposure to a drug called methimazole before birth. This medication is given to treat an overactive thyroid gland. Babies whose mothers take this medication during pregnancy are at increased risk of having the condition. In addition, certain viral infections in a pregnant mother can cause the baby to be born with the skin lesions characteristic of nonsyndromic aplasia cutis congenita. Other cases are thought to be caused by injury to the baby during development."
1528,What are the treatments for Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis ?,"Doctors may prescribe medicines, oxygen therapy, pulmonary rehabilitation (PR), and lung transplant to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF).
                
Medicines
                
Currently, no medicines are proven to slow the progression of IPF.
                
Prednisone, azathioprine (A-zah-THI-o-preen), and N-acetylcysteine (a-SEH-til-SIS-tee-in) have been used to treat IPF, either alone or in combination. However, experts have not found enough evidence to support their use.
                
Prednisone
                
Prednisone is an anti-inflammatory medicine. You usually take it by mouth every day. However, your doctor may give it to you through a needle or tube inserted into a vein in your arm for several days. After that, you usually take it by mouth.
                
Because prednisone can cause serious side effects, your doctor may prescribe it for 3 to 6 months or less at first. Then, if it works for you, your doctor may reduce the dose over time and keep you on it longer.
                
Azathioprine
                
Azathioprine suppresses your immune system. You usually take it by mouth every day. Because it can cause serious side effects, your doctor may prescribe it with prednisone for only 3 to 6 months.
                
If you don't have serious side effects and the medicines seem to help you, your doctor may keep you on them longer.
                
N-acetylcysteine
                
N-acetylcysteine is an antioxidant that may help prevent lung damage. You usually take it by mouth several times a day.
                
A common treatment for IPF is a combination of prednisone, azathioprine, and N-acetylcysteine. However, this treatment was recently found harmful in a study funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI).
                
If you have IPF and take this combination of medicines, talk with your doctor. Do not stop taking the medicines on your own.
                
The NHLBI currently supports research to compare N-acetylcysteine treatment with placebo treatment (sugar pills) in patients who have IPF.
                
New Medicines Being Studied
                
Researchers, like those in the Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Network, are studying new treatments for IPF. With the support and guidance of the NHLBI, these researchers continue to look for new IPF treatments and therapies.
                
Some of these researchers are studying medicines that may reduce inflammation and prevent or reduce scarring caused by IPF.
                
If you're interested in joining a research study, talk with your doctor. For more information about ongoing research, go to the ""Clinical Trials"" section of this article.
                
Other Treatments
                
Other treatments that may help people who have IPF include the following:
                
Flu andpneumonia vaccines may help prevent infections and keep you healthy.
                
Cough medicines or oral codeine may relieve coughing.
                
Vitamin D, calcium, and a bone-building medicine may help prevent bone loss if you're taking prednisone or another corticosteroid.
                
Anti-reflux therapy may help control gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Most people who have IPF also have GERD.
                
Oxygen Therapy
                
If the amount of oxygen in your blood gets low, you may need oxygen therapy. Oxygen therapy can help reduce shortness of breath and allow you to be more active.
                
Oxygen usually is given through nasal prongs or a mask. At first, you may need it only during exercise and sleep. As your disease worsens, you may need it all the time.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Oxygen Therapy article.
                
Pulmonary Rehabilitation
                
PR is now a standard treatment for people who have chronic (ongoing) lung disease. PR is a broad program that helps improve the well-being of people who have breathing problems.
                
The program usually involves treatment by a team of specialists in a special clinic. The goal is to teach you how to manage your condition and function at your best.
                
PR doesn't replace medical therapy. Instead, it's used with medical therapy and may include:
                
Exercise training
                
Nutritional counseling
                
Education on your lung disease or condition and how to manage it
                
Energy-conserving techniques
                
Breathing strategies
                
Psychological counseling and/or group support
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Pulmonary Rehabilitation article.
                
Lung Transplant
                
Your doctor may recommend a lung transplant if your condition is quickly worsening or very severe. A lung transplant can improve your quality of life and help you live longer.
                
Some medical centers will consider patients older than 65 for lung transplants if they have no other serious medical problems.
                
The major complications of a lung transplant are rejection and infection. (""Rejection"" refers to your body creating proteins that attack the new organ.) You will have to take medicines for the rest of your life to reduce the risk of rejection.
                
Because the supply of donor lungs is limited, talk with your doctor about a lung transplant as soon as possible.
                
For more information, go to the Health Topics Lung Transplant article."
1529,What are the treatments for Immunodeficiency with hyper IgM type 1 ?,"How might hyper IgM syndrome be treated? The cornerstone of treatment for individuals with hyper IgM syndrome is regular injections of intravenous immunogloblulin (IVIG). This treatment not only supplies missing IgG antibodies, but also prompts a drop in IgM antibodies. Patients with neutropenia can take granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Antibiotics may also be prescribed to prevent the respiratory infection, pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. Most children with hyper-IgM syndrome respond well to treatment, become symptom-free and resume normal growth."
1530,Is branchiootorenal/branchiootic syndrome inherited ?,"BOR/BO syndrome is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about 90 percent of cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1531,What is (are) spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 ?,"Spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) is a condition characterized by progressive problems with movement. People with this condition initially experience problems with coordination and balance (ataxia). Other early signs and symptoms of SCA2 include speech and swallowing difficulties, rigidity, tremors, and weakness in the muscles that control eye movement (ophthalmoplegia). Eye muscle weakness leads to a decreased ability to make rapid eye movements (saccadic slowing).  Over time, individuals with SCA2 may develop loss of sensation and weakness in the limbs (peripheral neuropathy), muscle wasting (atrophy), uncontrolled muscle tensing (dystonia), and involuntary jerking movements (chorea). Individuals with SCA2 may have problems with short term memory, planning, and problem solving, or experience an overall decline in intellectual function (dementia).  Signs and symptoms of the disorder typically begin in mid-adulthood but can appear anytime from childhood to late adulthood. People with SCA2 usually survive 10 to 20 years after symptoms first appear."
1532,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Apraxia ?,"The NINDS supports research on movement disorders and conditions such as apraxia. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders, and to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure them."
1533,Is cranioectodermal dysplasia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1534,What are the genetic changes related to aromatase excess syndrome ?,"Rearrangements of genetic material involving the CYP19A1 gene cause aromatase excess syndrome. The CYP19A1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called aromatase. This enzyme converts a class of hormones called androgens, which are involved in male sexual development, to different forms of estrogen. In females, estrogen guides female sexual development before birth and during puberty. In both males and females, estrogen plays a role in regulating bone growth.  The condition can result from several types of genetic rearrangements involving the CYP19A1 gene. These rearrangements alter the activity of the gene and lead to an increase in aromatase production. In affected males, the increased aromatase and subsequent conversion of androgens to estrogen are responsible for the gynecomastia and limited bone growth characteristic of aromatase excess syndrome. Increased estrogen in females can cause symptoms such as irregular menstrual periods and short stature."
1535,What are the treatments for Alagille syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Alagille syndrome:  - Boston Children's Hospital  - Children's Hospital of Philadelphia  - Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Alagille Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Alagille syndrome 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arteriohepatic dysplasia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Tetralogy of Fallot   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1536,Is nonsyndromic paraganglioma inherited ?,"Nonsyndromic paraganglioma can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing a paraganglioma or pheochromocytoma. People with mutations in the gene inherit an increased risk of this condition, not the condition itself. Not all people with this condition have a mutation in the gene, and not all people with a gene mutation will develop the disorder.  Most cases of nonsyndromic paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma are considered sporadic, which means the tumors occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1537,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Whipple's Disease ?,"The mission of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) is to seek fundamental knowledge of the brain and nervous system and to use that knowledge to reduce the burden of neurological disease. The NINDS supportsa broad range of research on disorders that affect the central nervous system. The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases also supports research on disorders such as Whipple's disease. Much of this research is aimed at learning more about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them."
1538,How to diagnose Klippel Feil syndrome ?,"How is Klippel Feil syndrome diagnosed? Klippel Feil syndrome (KFS) is typically diagnosed when X-rays or other imaging techniques show fusion of cervical vertebrae. X-rays of the entire spine should be performed to detect other spinal abnormalities, and additional imaging studies may be needed to assess the extent of the abnormality. KFS can be associated with a wide range of other abnormalities involving many parts of the body. Therefore, other initial exams are needed to detect additional physical abnormalities or underlying conditions. These include: examination of the chest to rule out involvement of the heart and lungs examination of the chest wall to detect possible rib anomalies MRI for spinal stenosis or neurological deficits ultrasound of the kidneys for renal abnormalities hearing evaluation due to high incidence of hearing loss Various lab tests to assess organ function Additional tests or consultations with specialists may be recommended depending on the features present in each person with KFS."
1539,Is Glioblastoma inherited ?,"Is glioblastoma inherited? Most glioblastomas are not inherited. They usually occur sporadically in people with no family history of tumors. However, they can rarely occur in people with certain genetic syndromes such as neurofibromatosis type 1, Turcot syndrome and Li Fraumeni syndrome. All of these conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner."
1540,Is cystinuria inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1541,What are the symptoms of Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis? Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis is a rare disorder characterized by progressive weakness and stiffness of muscles in the arms, legs, and face. Symptoms of juvenile primary lateral sclerosis begin in early childhood and progress over a period of 15 to 20 years. Early symptoms include clumsiness, muscle spasms, weakness and stiffness in the legs, and difficulty with balance. As symptoms progress, they include weakness and stiffness in the arms and hands, slurred speech, drooling, difficulty swallowing, and an inability to walk. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Juvenile primary lateral sclerosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal pyramidal signs 90% Gait disturbance 90% Hemiplegia/hemiparesis 90% Hyperreflexia 90% Hypertonia 90% Incoordination 90% Muscle weakness 90% Pseudobulbar signs 90% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Abnormality of the urinary system 7.5% Skeletal muscle atrophy 7.5% Abnormal upper motor neuron morphology - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Babinski sign - Cerebral cortical atrophy - Childhood onset - Difficulty in tongue movements - Dysphagia - Juvenile onset - Pseudobulbar behavioral symptoms - Saccadic smooth pursuit - Slow progression - Spastic dysarthria - Spastic gait - Spastic tetraparesis - Spasticity of facial muscles - Spasticity of pharyngeal muscles - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1542,"What are the symptoms of Glutamine deficiency, congenital ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Glutamine deficiency, congenital? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glutamine deficiency, congenital. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Death in infancy 7.5% Flexion contracture 5% Micromelia 5% Apnea - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bradycardia - Brain atrophy - CNS hypomyelination - Depressed nasal bridge - Encephalopathy - Hyperammonemia - Hyperreflexia - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Low-set ears - Muscular hypotonia - Periventricular cysts - Respiratory insufficiency - Seizures - Severe global developmental delay - Skin rash - Subependymal cysts - Ventriculomegaly - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1543,What is (are) Chromosome 5q deletion ?,"Chromosome 5q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 5. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 5q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1544,What are the symptoms of Poland syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Poland syndrome? Signs and symptoms of Poland syndrome may be slight to severe. Some people with Poland syndrome have only absence of the breast tissue, while others may be missing all or part of the chest muscle and underlying ribs. Symptoms tend to occur on one side of the body. Below we have listed symptoms that can be found in this condition:  Absence of some of the chest muscles.  The end of the main chest muscle, where it attaches to the breastbone, is usually missing.  The nipple, including the darkened area around it (areola) is underdeveloped or missing; in females, this may extend to the breast and underlying tissues. Abnormally short and slightly webbed fingers. Often, the armpit (axillary) hair is missing. The skin in the area is underdeveloped (hypoplastic) with a thinned subcutaneous fat layer.  The upper rib cage can be underdeveloped or missing, Sometimes the shoulder blade or bones of the arm are also involved, Rarely, spine or kidney problems are present.   The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Poland syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia of the pectoralis major muscle 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the nipples 90% Asymmetry of the thorax 90% Breast aplasia 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Finger syndactyly 50% Split hand 50% Abnormal dermatoglyphics 7.5% Abnormality of the humerus 7.5% Abnormality of the liver 7.5% Abnormality of the lower limb 7.5% Abnormality of the ribs 7.5% Abnormality of the sternum 7.5% Abnormality of the ulna 7.5% Absent hand 7.5% Acute leukemia 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the thumb 7.5% Cone-shaped epiphysis 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Low posterior hairline 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Neoplasm of the breast 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Retinal hamartoma 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Short neck 7.5% Situs inversus totalis 7.5% Abnormality of the breast - Absence of pectoralis minor muscle - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Dextrocardia - Hemivertebrae - Hypoplasia of deltoid muscle - Hypoplasia of latissimus dorsi muscle - Hypoplasia of serratus anterior muscle - Rib fusion - Short ribs - Sprengel anomaly - Syndactyly - Unilateral absence of pectoralis major muscle - Unilateral brachydactyly - Unilateral hypoplasia of pectoralis major muscle - Unilateral oligodactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1545,What is (are) Squamous cell carcinoma ?,"Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the second most common skin cancer. SCC most often affects individuals who are exposed to large amounts of sunlight. It is typically characterized by a red papule or plaque with a scaly or crusted surface; it may be suspected whenever a small, firm reddish-colored skin lesion, growth or bump appears on the skin, but it may also be a flat growth with a curly and crusted surface. Most often these growths are located on the face, ears, neck, hands and/or arms, but they may occur on the lips, mouth, tongue, genitalia or other area. The most common causes of SCC are radiation from the sun and arsenic exposure. With appropriate treatment, it is usually curable."
1546,What is (are) Diabetic Kidney Disease ?,"Diabetes is a complex group of diseases with a variety of causes. People with diabetes have high blood glucose, also called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia.
                
Diabetes is a disorder of metabolism the way the body uses digested food for energy. The digestive tract breaks down carbohydratessugars and starches found in many foodsinto glucose, a form of sugar that enters the bloodstream. With the help of the hormone insulin, cells throughout the body absorb glucose and use it for energy.
                
Insulin is made in the pancreas, an organ located behind the stomach and below the liver. As blood glucose levels rise after a meal, the pancreas is triggered to release insulin. The pancreas contains clusters of cells called pancreatic islets. Beta cells within the pancreatic islets make insulin and release it into the blood.
                
Diabetes develops when the body doesnt make enough insulin, is not able to use insulin effectively, or both. As a result, glucose builds up in the blood instead of being absorbed by cells in the body. The bodys cells are then starved of energy despite high blood glucose levels."
1547,What is (are) Vasculitis ?,"Vasculitis is an inflammation of the blood vessels. It happens when the body's immune system attacks the blood vessel by mistake. It can happen because of an infection, a medicine, or another disease. The cause is often unknown.    Vasculitis can affect arteries, veins and capillaries. Arteries are vessels that carry blood from the heart to the body's organs. Veins are the vessels that carry blood back to the heart. Capillaries are tiny blood vessels that connect the small arteries and veins.     When a blood vessel becomes inflamed, it can       -  Narrow, making it more difficult for blood to get through     -  Close off completely so that blood can't get through     -  Stretch and weaken so much that it bulges. The bulge is called an aneurysm. If it bursts, it can cause dangerous bleeding inside the body.       Symptoms of vasculitis can vary, but usually include fever, swelling and a general sense of feeling ill. The main goal of treatment is to stop the inflammation. Steroids and other medicines to stop inflammation are often helpful.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
1548,What is (are) Brittle diabetes ?,"Brittle diabetes is characterized by severe instability of blood glucose levels with frequent and unpredictable episodes of hypoglycemia and/or ketoacidosis that disrupt quality of life, often requiring frequent or prolonged hospitalizations. These unpredictable episodes are due to an absolute insulin dependency, affecting type 1 diabetics almost exclusively. Brittle diabetes is most common in women in their twenties or thirties, but can occur at any age and in either gender. The condition may be caused by stress and hormonal inbalance, neglect of self-care (noncompliance), or underlying medical conditions such as malabsorption, delayed gastric emptying due to autonomic neuropathy, drug or alcohol use or abnormal insulin absorption or degradation. Treatment is difficult and dependent upon the underlying cause."
1549,What causes Trisomy 18 ?,"What causes Trisomy 18? In most cases, trisomy 18 is caused by having 3 copies of chromosome 18 in each cell in the body, instead of the usual 2 copies. The extra genetic material from the 3rd copy of the chromosome disrupts development, causing the characteristic signs and symptoms of the condition. About 5% of people with trisomy 18 have 'mosaic trisomy 18' (when there is an extra copy of the chromosome in only some of the body's cells). The severity of mosaic trisomy 18 depends on the number and locations of cells with the extra copy. Very rarely, an extra piece of chromosome 18 is attached to another chromosome; this is called translocation trisomy 18, or partial trisomy 18. If only part of the long (q) arm of chromosome 18 is present in 3 copies, the features may be less severe than in people with full trisomy 18."
1550,What are the genetic changes related to permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus ?,"Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus may be caused by mutations in several genes.  About 30 percent of individuals with permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus have mutations in the KCNJ11 gene. An additional 20 percent of people with permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus have mutations in the ABCC8 gene. These genes provide instructions for making parts (subunits) of the ATP-sensitive potassium (K-ATP) channel. Each K-ATP channel consists of eight subunits, four produced from the KCNJ11 gene and four from the ABCC8 gene.  K-ATP channels are found across cell membranes in the insulin-secreting beta cells of the pancreas. These channels open and close in response to the amount of glucose in the bloodstream. Closure of the channels in response to increased glucose triggers the release of insulin out of beta cells and into the bloodstream, which helps control blood sugar levels.  Mutations in the KCNJ11 or ABCC8 gene that cause permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus result in K-ATP channels that do not close, leading to reduced insulin secretion from beta cells and impaired blood sugar control.  Mutations in the INS gene, which provides instructions for making insulin, have been identified in about 20 percent of individuals with permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus. Insulin is produced in a precursor form called proinsulin, which consists of a single chain of protein building blocks (amino acids). The proinsulin chain is cut (cleaved) to form individual pieces called the A and B chains, which are joined together by connections called disulfide bonds to form insulin. Mutations in the INS gene are believed to disrupt the cleavage of the proinsulin chain or the binding of the A and B chains to form insulin, leading to impaired blood sugar control.  Permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus can also be caused by mutations in other genes, some of which have not been identified."
1551,Is Robinow syndrome inherited ?,"As discussed above, Robinow syndrome can have either an autosomal recessive or an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.  Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of an altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases of Robinow syndrome, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1552,How to prevent Urinary Tract Infections ?,"Changing some of these daily habits may help prevent urinary tract infections (UTIs). - Wipe from front to back after using the toilet. Women should wipe from front to back to keep bacteria from getting into the urethra. This step is most important after a bowel movement. Wipe from front to back after using the toilet. Women should wipe from front to back to keep bacteria from getting into the urethra. This step is most important after a bowel movement. - Drink lots of fluids, especially water. Fluids can help flush bacteria from the urinary system. Water is best. Most healthy people should try to drink six to eight, 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day. (Some people need to drink less water because of certain conditions. For example, if you have kidney failure or heart disease, you should not drink this much fluid. Ask your health care provider how much fluid is healthy for you.) Drink lots of fluids, especially water. Fluids can help flush bacteria from the urinary system. Water is best. Most healthy people should try to drink six to eight, 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day. (Some people need to drink less water because of certain conditions. For example, if you have kidney failure or heart disease, you should not drink this much fluid. Ask your health care provider how much fluid is healthy for you.) - Urinate often and when the urge arises. Try to urinate at least every 3 to 4 hours. Bacteria are more likely to grow in the bladder when urine stays in the bladder too long.  Urinate often and when the urge arises. Try to urinate at least every 3 to 4 hours. Bacteria are more likely to grow in the bladder when urine stays in the bladder too long. - Urinate after sex. Both women and men should urinate shortly after sex to flush away bacteria that may have entered the urethra during sex.  Urinate after sex. Both women and men should urinate shortly after sex to flush away bacteria that may have entered the urethra during sex. - Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes. Wearing looser, cotton clothing will allow air to keep the area around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans and nylon underwear should be avoided because they can trap moisture and help bacteria grow. Wear cotton underwear and loose-fitting clothes. Wearing looser, cotton clothing will allow air to keep the area around the urethra dry. Tight-fitting jeans and nylon underwear should be avoided because they can trap moisture and help bacteria grow. Cranberry Juice Drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry supplements may also help prevent UTIs. Some studies have shown that cranberry products make UTIs less likely, especially in people who get UTIs often. But in other studies, cranberry products did not help."
1553,What is (are) neuroblastoma ?,"Neuroblastoma is a type of cancer that most often affects children. Neuroblastoma occurs when immature nerve cells called neuroblasts become abnormal and multiply uncontrollably to form a tumor. Most commonly, the tumor originates in the nerve tissue of the adrenal gland located above each kidney. Other common sites for tumors to form include the nerve tissue in the abdomen, chest, neck, or pelvis. Neuroblastoma can spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body such as the bones, liver, or skin.  Individuals with neuroblastoma may develop general signs and symptoms such as irritability, fever, tiredness (fatigue), pain, loss of appetite, weight loss, or diarrhea. More specific signs and symptoms depend on the location of the tumor and where it has spread. A tumor in the abdomen can cause abdominal swelling. A tumor in the chest may lead to difficulty breathing. A tumor in the neck can cause nerve damage known as Horner syndrome, which leads to drooping eyelids, small pupils, decreased sweating, and red skin. Tumor metastasis to the bone can cause bone pain, bruises, pale skin, or dark circles around the eyes. Tumors in the backbone can press on the spinal cord and cause weakness, numbness, or paralysis in the arms or legs. A rash of bluish or purplish bumps that look like blueberries indicates that the neuroblastoma has spread to the skin.  In addition, neuroblastoma tumors can release hormones that may cause other signs and symptoms such as high blood pressure, rapid heartbeat, flushing of the skin, and sweating. In rare instances, individuals with neuroblastoma may develop opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome, which causes rapid eye movements and jerky muscle motions. This condition occurs when the immune system malfunctions and attacks nerve tissue.  Neuroblastoma occurs most often in children before age 5 and rarely occurs in adults."
1554,"What is (are) congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism, and neuropathy ?","Congenital cataracts, facial dysmorphism, and neuropathy (CCFDN) is a rare disorder that affects several parts of the body. It is characterized by a clouding of the lens of the eyes at birth (congenital cataracts) and other eye abnormalities, such as small or poorly developed eyes (microphthalmia) and abnormal eye movements (nystagmus). Affected individuals, particularly males, often have distinctive facial features that become more apparent as they reach adulthood. These features include a prominent midface, a large nose, protruding teeth, and a small lower jaw.  CCFDN causes progressive damage to the peripheral nerves, which connect the brain and spinal cord to muscles and sensory cells. This nerve damage is known as peripheral neuropathy. Weakness in the legs, followed by the arms, begins in the first few years of life, and as a result children with CCFDN have delayed development of motor skills such as standing and walking. In adolescence, affected individuals develop sensory abnormalities such as numbness and tingling, mainly in the legs. By adulthood they typically have significant difficulties with mobility. Muscle weakness can also lead to skeletal abnormalities such as hand and foot deformities and abnormal curvature of the spine.  People with CCFDN may have problems with balance and coordination (ataxia), tremors, and difficulty with movements that involve judging distance or scale (dysmetria). Some have mild intellectual disability. Individuals with CCFDN have short stature, are typically underweight, and have reduced bone density.  A complication called rhabdomyolysis occurs in some people with CCFDN, typically following a viral infection or, in rare cases, during or after surgery. Rhabdomyolysis is a breakdown of muscle tissue that results in severe muscle weakness. The destruction of muscle tissue releases a protein called myoglobin, which is processed by the kidneys and released in the urine (myoglobinuria). The presence of myoglobin causes the urine to be red or brown. The muscles may take up to a year to recover, and the episodes may worsen the muscle weakness caused by the neuropathy."
1555,What is the outlook for Learning Disabilities ?,"Learning disabilities can be lifelong conditions. In some people, several overlapping learning disabilities may be apparent. Other people may have a single, isolated learning problem that has little impact on their lives."
1556,What causes Problems with Smell ?,"Most people who have a problem with smell have recently had an illness or injury. The most common causes are upper respiratory infections, such as the common cold, and chronic sinus or nasal disease. Other common causes are -  aging   - smoking  - nasal polyps   - head injury   - allergens such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander  - hormonal disturbances  - dental problems  - exposure to certain chemicals such as insecticides or solvents   - medications such as antibiotics or antihistamines   - radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers  - diseases of the nervous system such as Parkinsons disease or Alzheimers disease.  aging smoking nasal polyps head injury allergens such as ragweed, grasses, and pet dander hormonal disturbances dental problems exposure to certain chemicals such as insecticides or solvents medications such as antibiotics or antihistamines radiation for treatment of head and neck cancers diseases of the nervous system such as Parkinsons disease or Alzheimers disease."
1557,What is (are) Poland syndrome ?,"Poland syndrome is a disorder in which affected individuals are born with missing or underdeveloped muscles on one side of the body, resulting in abnormalities that can affect the chest, shoulder, arm, and hand. The extent and severity of the abnormalities vary among affected individuals.  People with Poland syndrome are typically missing part of one of the major chest muscles, called the pectoralis major. In most affected individuals, the missing part is the large section of the muscle that normally runs from the upper arm to the breastbone (sternum). The abnormal pectoralis major muscle may cause the chest to appear concave. In some cases, additional muscles on the affected side of the torso, including muscles in the chest wall, side, and shoulder, may be missing or underdeveloped. There may also be rib cage abnormalities, such as shortened ribs, and the ribs may be noticeable due to less fat under the skin (subcutaneous fat). Breast and nipple abnormalities may also occur, and underarm (axillary) hair is sometimes sparse or abnormally placed. In most cases, the abnormalities in the chest area do not cause health problems or affect movement.  Many people with Poland syndrome have hand abnormalities on the affected side, commonly including an underdeveloped hand with abnormally short fingers (brachydactyly); small, underdeveloped (vestigial) fingers; and some fingers that are fused together (syndactyly). This combination of hand abnormalities is called symbrachydactyly. Some affected individuals have only one or two of these features, or have a mild hand abnormality that is hardly noticeable; more severe abnormalities can cause problems with use of the hand. The bones of the forearm (radius and ulna) are shortened in some people with Poland syndrome, but this shortening may also be difficult to detect unless measured.  Mild cases of Poland syndrome without hand involvement may not be evident until puberty, when the differences (asymmetry) between the two sides of the chest become more apparent. By contrast, severely affected individuals have abnormalities of the chest, hand, or both that are apparent at birth. In rare cases, severely affected individuals have abnormalities of internal organs such as a lung or a kidney, or the heart is abnormally located in the right side of the chest (dextrocardia).  Rarely, chest and hand abnormalities resembling those of Poland syndrome occur on both sides of the body, but researchers disagree as to whether this condition is a variant of Poland syndrome or a different disorder."
1558,What are the treatments for Coats plus syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Coats plus syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Cerebroretinal microangiopathy with calcifications and cysts   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1559,What is the outlook for Alternating Hemiplegia ?,"Children with the benign form of alternating hemiplegia have a good prognosis. Those who experience the more severe form have a poor prognosis because intellectual and mental capacities do not respond to drug therapy, and balance and gait problems continue. Over time, walking unassisted becomes difficult or impossible."
1560,What is (are) Irritable Bowel Syndrome ?,"Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a problem that affects the large intestine. It can cause abdominal cramping, bloating, and a change in bowel habits. Some people with the disorder have constipation. Some have diarrhea. Others go back and forth between the two. Although IBS can cause a great deal of discomfort, it does not harm the intestines.    IBS is common. It affects about twice as many women as men and is most often found in people younger than 45 years. No one knows the exact cause of IBS. There is no specific test for it. Your doctor may run tests to be sure you don't have other diseases. These tests may include stool sampling tests, blood tests, and x-rays. Your doctor may also do a test called a sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. Most people diagnosed with IBS can control their symptoms with diet, stress management, probiotics, and medicine.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1561,What are the treatments for What I need to know about Living with Kidney Failure ?,"Kidney failure means your kidneys no longer work well enough to do their job. You need treatment to replace the work your damaged kidneys have stopped doing. The treatments for kidney failure are
                
- hemodialysis  - peritoneal dialysis  - a kidney transplant
                
Your kidneys filter wastes and extra fluid from your blood to keep you healthy. The wastes and extra fluid become urine that is stored in your bladder until you urinate. When your kidneys fail, dialysis can take over a small part of the work your damaged kidneys can no longer do. You can make treatments work better by
                
- sticking to your treatment schedule  - taking all medicines your doctor prescribes  - following a special diet that keeps wastes from building up in your blood  - being active most days of the week
                
Hemodialysis
                
Hemodialysis is a treatment for kidney failure. Hemodialysis uses a machine to filter your blood outside your body. First, a dialysis nurse places two needles into your arm. A pump on the hemodialysis machine draws your blood through one of the needles into a tube. The tube takes the blood to a filter, called a dialyzer. Inside the dialyzer, your blood flows through thin fibers that are like straws. The wastes and extra fluid leave the blood through tiny holes in the fibers. Then, a different tube carries the filtered blood back to your body through the second needle.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topics, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Hemodialysis and Home Hemodialysis.
                
Peritoneal Dialysis
                
catheter
                
Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Peritoneal Dialysis
                
Kidney Transplant
                
A kidney transplant places a healthy kidney from another person into your body. The kidney may come from someone who has just died. Your doctor will place your name on a waiting list for a kidney. A family member or friend might be able to give you a kidney. Then you dont have to wait.
                
The new kidney takes over filtering your blood. The damaged kidneys usually stay where they are. The new kidney is placed in the front lower abdomen, on one side of the bladder. Your body normally attacks anything that shouldnt be there, such as bacteria. Your body will think the new kidney shouldnt be there. You will take medicines called immunosuppressants to keep your body from attacking the new kidney.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure: Transplantation.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the the words in bold type."
1562,What is (are) hypomyelination and congenital cataract ?,"Hypomyelination and congenital cataract is an inherited condition that affects the nervous system and the eyes. This disease is one of a group of genetic disorders called leukoencephalopathies. Leukoencephalopathies involve abnormalities of the brain's white matter. White matter consists of nerve fibers covered by a fatty substance called myelin. Myelin insulates nerve fibers and promotes the rapid transmission of nerve impulses. Hypomyelination and congenital cataract is caused by a reduced ability to form myelin (hypomyelination). Additionally, people with this disorder are typically born with a clouding of the lens (cataract) in both eyes.  People with this condition usually have normal development throughout the first year of life. Development slows around the age of 1. Most affected children learn to walk between the ages of 1 and 2, although they usually need some type of support. Over time they experience muscle weakness and wasting (atrophy) in their legs, and many affected people eventually require wheelchair assistance. Weakness in the muscles of the trunk and a progressive abnormal curvature of the spine (scoliosis) further impair walking in some individuals. Most people with hypomyelination and congenital cataract have reduced sensation in their arms and legs (peripheral neuropathy). In addition, affected individuals typically have speech difficulties (dysarthria) and mild to moderate intellectual disability."
1563,What are the treatments for What I need to know about Diarrhea ?,"Diarrhea is treated by replacing lost fluids, salts, and minerals to prevent dehydration.
                
Taking medicine to stop diarrhea can be helpful in some cases. Medicines you can buy over the counter without a prescription include loperamide (Imodium) and bismuth subsalicylate (Pepto-Bismol, Kaopectate). Stop taking these medicines if symptoms get worse or if the diarrhea lasts more than 2 days. If you have bloody diarrhea, you should not use over-the-counter diarrhea medicines. These medicines may make diarrhea last longer. The health care provider will usually prescribe antibiotics instead.
                
Over-the-counter medicines for diarrhea may be dangerous for babies and children. Talk with the health care provider before giving your child these medicines."
1564,What are the genetic changes related to osteogenesis imperfecta ?,"Mutations in the COL1A1, COL1A2, CRTAP, and P3H1 genes cause osteogenesis imperfecta.  Mutations in the COL1A1 and COL1A2 genes are responsible for more than 90 percent of all cases of osteogenesis imperfecta. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are used to assemble type I collagen. This type of collagen is the most abundant protein in bone, skin, and other connective tissues that provide structure and strength to the body.  Most of the mutations that cause osteogenesis imperfecta type I occur in the COL1A1 gene. These genetic changes reduce the amount of type I collagen produced in the body, which causes bones to be brittle and to fracture easily. The mutations responsible for most cases of osteogenesis imperfecta types II, III, and IV occur in either the COL1A1 or COL1A2 gene. These mutations typically alter the structure of type I collagen molecules. A defect in the structure of type I collagen weakens connective tissues, particularly bone, resulting in the characteristic features of osteogenesis imperfecta.  Mutations in the CRTAP and P3H1 genes are responsible for rare, often severe cases of osteogenesis imperfecta. Cases caused by CRTAP mutations are usually classified as type VII; when P3H1 mutations underlie the condition, it is classified as type VIII. The proteins produced from these genes work together to process collagen into its mature form. Mutations in either gene disrupt the normal folding, assembly, and secretion of collagen molecules. These defects weaken connective tissues, leading to severe bone abnormalities and problems with growth.  In cases of osteogenesis imperfecta without identified mutations in one of the genes described above, the cause of the disorder is unknown. These cases include osteogenesis imperfecta types V and VI. Researchers are working to identify additional genes that may be responsible for these conditions."
1565,Is Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis inherited ?,"Since I have a family history of hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis, what are the chances that I inherited the condition? To find out your chances of having hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis, you may want to speak with a genetics professional. A genetics professionl can review your medical and family history in order to provide you with your specific risks. To learn more about genetic consultations, click here."
1566,What are the symptoms of Tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tubulointerstitial nephritis and uveitis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Panuveitis 5% Abnormality of the mouth - Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis - Circulating immune complexes - Elevated serum creatinine - Glomerulonephritis - Non-caseating epithelioid cell granulomatosis - Reversible renal failure - Sporadic - Uveitis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1567,What is (are) mannose-binding lectin deficiency ?,"Mannose-binding lectin deficiency is a condition that affects the immune system. People with this condition have low levels of an immune system protein called mannose-binding lectin in their blood. These individuals are prone to recurrent infections, including infections of the upper respiratory tract and other body systems. People with this condition may also contract more serious infections such as pneumonia and meningitis. Depending on the type of infection, the symptoms caused by the infections vary in frequency and severity.  Infants and young children with mannose-binding lectin deficiency seem to be more susceptible to infections, but adults can also develop recurrent infections. In addition, affected individuals undergoing chemotherapy or taking drugs that suppress the immune system are especially prone to infections."
1568,What are the symptoms of Kernicterus ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Kernicterus? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Kernicterus. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebral palsy - Jaundice - Kernicterus - Neonatal unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1569,How to diagnose What I need to know about Hepatitis A ?,A blood test will show if you have hepatitis A. Blood tests are done at a doctors office or outpatient facility. A blood sample is taken using a needle inserted into a vein in your arm or hand. The blood sample is sent to a lab to test for hepatitis A.
1570,What is the outlook for Hydrocephalus ?,"The prognosis for individuals diagnosed with hydrocephalus is difficult to predict, although there is some correlation between the specific cause of hydrocephalus and the patient's outcome. Prognosis is further complicated by the presence of associated disorders, the timeliness of diagnosis, and the success of treatment. The symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus usually get worse over time if the condition is not treated, although some people may experience temporary improvements. If left untreated, progressive hydrocephalus is fatal, with rare exceptions. The parents of children with hydrocephalus should be aware that hydrocephalus poses risks to both cognitive and physical development. Treatment by an interdisciplinary team of medical professionals, rehabilitation specialists, and educational experts is critical to a positive outcome. Many children diagnosed with the disorder benefit from rehabilitation therapies and educational interventions, and go on to lead normal lives with few limitations."
1571,What are the symptoms of Lethal chondrodysplasia Moerman type ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Lethal chondrodysplasia Moerman type? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lethal chondrodysplasia Moerman type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 90% Abnormality of the cranial nerves 90% Abnormality of the metaphyses 90% Abnormality of the pulmonary artery 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Abnormality of the thumb 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the lungs 90% Blue sclerae 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Cleft palate 90% Dandy-Walker malformation 90% Intestinal malrotation 90% Kyphosis 90% Macrocephaly 90% Micromelia 90% Narrow chest 90% Polyhydramnios 90% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 90% Scoliosis 90% Short stature 90% Ventricular septal defect 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1572,What is (are) Simple Kidney Cysts ?,"Simple kidney cysts are abnormal, fluid-filled sacs that form in the kidneys. Simple kidney cysts are different from the cysts that develop when a person has polycystic kidney disease (PKD), which is a genetic disorder. Simple kidney cysts do not enlarge the kidneys, replace their normal structure, or cause reduced kidney function like cysts do in people with PKD.
                
Simple kidney cysts are more common as people age. An estimated 25 percent of people 40 years of age and 50 percent of people 50 years of age have simple kidney cysts.1"
1573,What is (are) Autonomic Nervous System Disorders ?,"Your autonomic nervous system is the part of your nervous system that controls involuntary actions, such as the beating of your heart and the widening or narrowing of your blood vessels. When something goes wrong in this system, it can cause serious problems, including       -  Blood pressure problems    -  Heart problems    -  Trouble with breathing and swallowing    -  Erectile dysfunction in men       Autonomic nervous system disorders can occur alone or as the result of another disease, such as Parkinson's disease, alcoholism and diabetes. Problems can affect either part of the system, as in complex regional pain syndromes, or all of the system. Some types are temporary, but many worsen over time. When they affect your breathing or heart function, these disorders can be life-threatening.    Some autonomic nervous system disorders get better when an underlying disease is treated. Often, however, there is no cure. In that case, the goal of treatment is to improve symptoms.     NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
1574,Is Anencephaly inherited ?,"Is anencephaly inherited? Most cases of anencephaly are sporadic, which means they occur in people with no family history of anencephaly or other neural tube defects (NTDs). In some cases, it may be associated with a chromosome abnormality, a severe malformation syndrome, or disruption of the amniotic membrane. A small portion of cases have appeared to be familial, but it often does not have a clear inheritance pattern. In isolated populations, anencephaly has been suspected to be due to a single gene. In Iranian Jews, who have high rates of consanguinity (mating with family members), it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Parents who have had a child with anencephaly are at an increased risk to have another affected child (compared with the risk in the general population). Because most cases are believed to be multifactorial (due to interaction of genetic and environmental factors), the recurrence risk is estimated to be between 2% and 5% after a single case. If anencephaly is known to be associated with an underlying disorder, the recurrence risk may depend on that of the underlying disorder. For women who have previously had a fetus or infant with anencephaly, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends increasing the intake of folic acid to 4mg per day beginning at least one month prior to conception. People who have had a pregnancy or child with anencephaly or another NTD, and have questions about future risk, are encouraged to speak with a genetic counselor or other genetics professional."
1575,What are the symptoms of Junctional epidermolysis bullosa ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Junctional epidermolysis bullosa? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Junctional epidermolysis bullosa. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal blistering of the skin 90% Abnormality of dental enamel 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 90% Abnormality of the stomach 50% Duodenal stenosis 50% Pruritus 50% Subcutaneous hemorrhage 50% Alopecia 7.5% Anemia 7.5% Corneal erosion 7.5% Dehydration 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 7.5% Irregular hyperpigmentation 7.5% Laryngeal cyst 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Nausea and vomiting 7.5% Onycholysis 7.5% Polyhydramnios 7.5% Recurrent urinary tract infections 7.5% Renal insufficiency 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Sepsis 7.5% Skin ulcer 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1576,What causes Cri du chat syndrome ?,"What causes cri du chat syndrome? Cri du chat syndrome is caused by a deletion of the end of the short (p) arm of chromosome 5. This chromosomal change is written as 5p-. The size of the deletion varies among affected individuals but studies suggest that larger deletions tend to result in more severe intellectual disability and developmental delay than smaller deletions. The signs and symptoms of cri du chat syndrome are probably related to the loss of multiple genes on the short arm of chromosome 5. Researchers believe that the loss of a specific gene, CTNND2, is associated with severe intellectual disability in some people with this condition. They are working to determine how the loss of other genes in this region contributes to the characteristic features of cri du chat syndrome."
1577,What are the symptoms of Papillary thyroid carcinoma ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Papillary thyroid carcinoma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Papillary thyroid carcinoma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Papillary thyroid carcinoma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1578,What are the symptoms of Teebi Naguib Al Awadi syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Teebi Naguib Al Awadi syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Teebi Naguib Al Awadi syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 90% Abnormality of the fibula 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the tibia 90% Abnormality of the ulna 90% Absent ulna 90% Aplasia/hypoplasia of the femur 90% Bowing of the long bones 90% Fibular aplasia 90% Micromelia 90% Oligodactyly (feet) 90% Oligodactyly (hands) 90% Short foot 90% Short stature 90% Split foot 90% Split hand 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia involving the carpal bones 75% Aplasia/Hypoplasia involving the metacarpal bones 75% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of metatarsal bones 75% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the phalanges of the hand 75% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the phalanges of the toes 75% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the tarsal bones 75% Disproportionate short stature 75% Elbow ankylosis 75% Elbow flexion contracture 75% Humeroradial synostosis 75% Hypoplasia of the radius 75% Phocomelia 75% Radial bowing 75% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the pubic bone 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 50% Femoral bowing 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Short neck 50% Abnormality of the humerus 7.5% Abnormality of the pinna 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Hip dislocation 7.5% Hydrops fetalis 7.5% Hypoplasia of penis 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Short nose 7.5% Skull defect 7.5% Talipes 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Aplasia of the uterus 5% Occipital meningocele 5% Anteriorly displaced genitalia 4/5 Barrel-shaped chest 2/3 Cryptorchidism 2/3 Long face 2/3 Prominent sternum 2/3 Broad clavicles 3/5 Broad neck 3/5 Broad ribs 3/5 Scrotal hypoplasia 1/3 Anonychia - Aplastic pubic bones - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Carpal bone aplasia - Congenital pseudoarthrosis of the clavicle - Decreased calvarial ossification - Epicanthus - Hemivertebrae - High palate - Hypoplastic nipples - Hypospadias - Long ear - Low-set ears - Narrow palate - Pectus carinatum - Pilonidal sinus - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1579,What are the symptoms of Glycogen storage disease type 13 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Glycogen storage disease type 13? Glycogen storage disease type 13 causes muscle pain (myalgia).  Individuals with GSD13 also experience exercise intolerance, which means they have difficulty exercising because they may have muscle weakness and tire easily. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Glycogen storage disease type 13. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Exercise intolerance - Increased muscle glycogen content - Myalgia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1580,What is (are) Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I ?,"Punctate palmoplantar keratoderma type I, also known as keratosis palmoplantaris papulosa (KPPP) or Brauer-Buschke-Fisher Syndrome is is a rare condition that affects the skin. It is a type of punctate palmoplantar keratoderma. Signs and symptoms begin in early adolescence or later and include hard, round bumps of thickened skin on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. It is is usually inherited in an autosomal dominant manner and can be caused by mutations in the AAGAB gene. Treatment options may include chemical or mechanical keratolysis as well as systemic acitretin. Some affected individuals have used surgical approaches consisting of excision and skin grafting."
1581,What is (are) Trichomoniasis ?,"Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted disease caused by a parasite. You get it through sexual intercourse with an infected partner. Many people do not have any symptoms. If you do get symptoms, they usually happen within 5 to 28 days after being infected.    Symptoms in women include       - Yellow-green or gray discharge from the vagina    - Discomfort during sex    - Vaginal odor    - Painful urination    - Itching in or near the vagina       Most men do not have symptoms. If they do, they may have a whitish discharge from the penis and painful or difficult urination and ejaculation.    Lab tests can tell if you have the infection. Treatment is with antibiotics. If you are infected, you and your partner must be treated. Correct usage of latex condoms greatly reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of catching or spreading trichomoniasis.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
1582,What are the genetic changes related to Tay-Sachs disease ?,"Mutations in the HEXA gene cause Tay-Sachs disease. The HEXA gene provides instructions for making part of an enzyme called beta-hexosaminidase A, which plays a critical role in the brain and spinal cord. This enzyme is located in lysosomes, which are structures in cells that break down toxic substances and act as recycling centers. Within lysosomes, beta-hexosaminidase A helps break down a fatty substance called GM2 ganglioside.  Mutations in the HEXA gene disrupt the activity of beta-hexosaminidase A, which prevents the enzyme from breaking down GM2 ganglioside. As a result, this substance accumulates to toxic levels, particularly in neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Progressive damage caused by the buildup of GM2 ganglioside leads to the destruction of these neurons, which causes the signs and symptoms of Tay-Sachs disease.  Because Tay-Sachs disease impairs the function of a lysosomal enzyme and involves the buildup of GM2 ganglioside, this condition is sometimes referred to as a lysosomal storage disorder or a GM2-gangliosidosis."
1583,What is (are) Tracheobronchomalacia ?,"Tracheobronchomalacia (TBM) is a rare condition that occurs when the walls of the airway (specifically the trachea and bronchi) are weak. This can cause the airway to become narrow or collapse. There are two forms of TBM: a congenital form (called primary TBM) that typically develops during infancy or early childhood and an acquired form (called secondary TBM) that is usually seen in adults. Some affected people may initially have no signs or symptoms. However, the condition is typically progressive (becomes worse overtime) and most people will eventually develop characteristic features such as shortness of breath, cough, sputum retention (inability to clear mucus from the respiratory tract), and wheezing or stridor with breathing. Most cases of primary TBM are caused by genetic conditions that weaken the walls of the airway, while the secondary form often occurs incidentally due to trauma, chronic inflammation and/or prolonged compression of the airways. Treatment is generally only required in those who have signs and symptoms of the condition and may include stenting, surgical correction, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), and tracheostomy."
1584,What are the symptoms of Fowler's syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Fowler's syndrome? Fowlers syndrome typically occurs in premenopausal women (often in women under 30 years of age) who are unable to void for a day or more with no feeling of urinary urgency, but with increasing lower abdominal discomfort. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Fowler's syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the urethra 90% Acne 90% Hypertrichosis 90% Polycystic ovaries 90% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1585,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis ?,"New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options for Childhood LCH and the Treatment Options for Adult LCH sections for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's clinical trials database."
1586,"What is (are) X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type ?","X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type is a condition characterized by mild to moderate intellectual disability that affects only males. Affected boys often have delayed development of motor skills such as walking, and their speech may be delayed.  Individuals with X-linked intellectual disability, Siderius type frequently also have an opening in the lip (cleft lip) with an opening in the roof of the mouth (cleft palate). A cleft can occur on one or both sides of the upper lip.  Some boys and men with this condition have distinctive facial features, including a long face, a sloping forehead, a broad nasal bridge, a prominent bone in the lower forehead (supraorbital ridge), and outside corners of the eyes that point upward (upslanting palpebral fissures). Affected individuals may also have low-set ears and large hands."
1587,What causes Dry Mouth ?,"Dry mouth can cause several problems, including difficulty tasting, chewing, swallowing, and speaking. Swallowing may be especially difficult for those with too little saliva. For example, people with dry mouth may be unable to swallow dry food at all unless they also drink fluids with food. They also need to take small bites of food and be very aware of chewing and swallowing so they don't choke. Dry mouth may also increase the chance of developing dental decay as well as oral fungal infections such as thrush, which causes painful white patches in the mouth."
1588,What are the treatments for leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Gingivitis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Immunodeficiency Disorders  - Primary Immune Deficiency Treatment Consortium   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1589,Who is at risk for Bronchiectasis? ?,"People who have conditions that damage the lungs or increase the risk of lung infections are at risk for bronchiectasis. Such conditions include:
                
Cystic fibrosis. This disease leads to almost half of the cases of bronchiectasis in the United States.
                
Immunodeficiency disorders, such as common variable immunodeficiency and, less often, HIV and AIDS.
                
Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. This is an allergic reaction to a fungus called aspergillus. The reaction causes swelling in the airways.
                
Disorders that affect cilia function, such as primary ciliary dyskinesia. Cilia are small, hair-like structures that line your airways. They help clear mucus (a slimy substance) out of your airways.
                
Bronchiectasis can develop at any age. Overall, two-thirds of people who have the condition are women. However, in children, the condition is more common in boys than in girls."
1590,Is Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy inherited ?,"How is limb-girdle muscular dystrophy inherited? Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD) is most often inherited in an autosomal recessive manner; less commonly, rare sub-types may be inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.  There may be difficulties diagnosing the condition accurately, and often the mode of inheritance cannot be determined. Therefore, it may be challenging to determine the exact recurrence risks for some families. Establishing the type of LGMD in an affected individual can be useful for discussing the clinical course of the disease as well as for determining who else in the family may be at risk for the condition."
1591,What is (are) Hypothyroidism ?,"Hypothyroidism is a disorder that occurs when the thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone to meet the bodys needs. Thyroid hormone regulates metabolismthe way the body uses energyand affects nearly every organ in the body. Without enough thyroid hormone, many of the bodys functions slow down. About 4.6 percent of the U.S. population age 12 and older has hypothyroidism.1"
1592,Do you have information about Quitting Smoking,"Summary : Tobacco use is the most common preventable cause of death. About half of the people who don't quit smoking will die of smoking-related problems. Quitting smoking is important for your health.    Soon after you quit, your circulation begins to improve, and your blood pressure starts to return to normal. Your sense of smell and taste return, and it's easier for you to breathe. In the long term, giving up tobacco can help you live longer. Your risk of getting cancer decreases with each year you stay smoke-free.    Quitting is not easy. You may have short-term affects such as weight gain, irritability, and anxiety. Some people try several times before they succeed. There are many ways to quit smoking. Some people stop ""cold turkey."" Others benefit from step-by-step manuals, counseling, or medicines or products that help reduce nicotine addiction. Some people think that switching to e-cigarettes can help you quit smoking, but that has not been proven. Your health care provider can help you find the best way for you to quit.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
1593,What is (are) Leukemia ?,Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays to destroy cancer cells. Some patients receive radiation treatment that is directed at the whole body.
1594,What are the treatments for High Blood Pressure ?,"Today, many different types of medicines are available to control high blood pressure. These medicines work in different ways. Some lower blood pressure by removing extra fluid and salt from your body. Others affect blood pressure by slowing down the heartbeat, or by relaxing and widening blood vessels. Often, two or more drugs work better than one. Here are the types of medicines used to treat high blood pressure. -   Diuretics (water or fluid Pills)  flush excess sodium from your body, which reduces the amount of fluid in your blood and helps to lower your blood pressure. Diuretics are often used with other high blood pressure medicines, sometimes in one combined pill.   -  Beta Blockers help your heart beat slower and with less force. As a result, your heart pumps less blood through your blood vessels, which can help to lower your blood pressure.  -  Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors. Angiotensin-II is a hormone that narrows blood vessels, increasing blood pressure. ACE converts Angiotensin I to Angiotensin II. ACE inhibitors block this process, which stops the production of Angiotensin II, lowering blood pressure.  -  Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers (ARBs) block angiotensin II hormone from binding with receptors in the blood vessels. When angiotensin II is blocked, the blood vessels do not constrict or narrow, which can lower your blood pressure.  -  Calcium Channel Blockers keep calcium from entering the muscle cells of your heart and blood vessels. This allows blood vessels to relax, which can lower your blood pressure.   -  Alpha Blockers reduce nerve impulses that tighten blood vessels. This allows blood to flow more freely, causing blood pressure to go down.  -  Alpha-Beta Blockers reduce nerve impulses the same way alpha blockers do. However, like beta blockers, they also slow the heartbeat. As a result, blood pressure goes down.  -  Central Acting Agents act in the brain to decrease nerve signals that narrow blood vessels, which can lower blood pressure.  -  Vasodilators relax the muscles in blood vessel walls, which can lower blood pressure.   Diuretics (water or fluid Pills)  flush excess sodium from your body, which reduces the amount of fluid in your blood and helps to lower your blood pressure. Diuretics are often used with other high blood pressure medicines, sometimes in one combined pill. Beta Blockers help your heart beat slower and with less force. As a result, your heart pumps less blood through your blood vessels, which can help to lower your blood pressure. Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) Inhibitors. Angiotensin-II is a hormone that narrows blood vessels, increasing blood pressure. ACE converts Angiotensin I to Angiotensin II. ACE inhibitors block this process, which stops the production of Angiotensin II, lowering blood pressure. Angiotensin II Receptor Blockers (ARBs) block angiotensin II hormone from binding with receptors in the blood vessels. When angiotensin II is blocked, the blood vessels do not constrict or narrow, which can lower your blood pressure. Calcium Channel Blockers keep calcium from entering the muscle cells of your heart and blood vessels. This allows blood vessels to relax, which can lower your blood pressure. Alpha Blockers reduce nerve impulses that tighten blood vessels. This allows blood to flow more freely, causing blood pressure to go down. Alpha-Beta Blockers reduce nerve impulses the same way alpha blockers do. However, like beta blockers, they also slow the heartbeat. As a result, blood pressure goes down. Central Acting Agents act in the brain to decrease nerve signals that narrow blood vessels, which can lower blood pressure. Vasodilators relax the muscles in blood vessel walls, which can lower blood pressure."
1595,What are the symptoms of WAGR syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of WAGR syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for WAGR syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aniridia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the iris 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Cataract 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Hearing abnormality 50% Hypospadias 50% Intellectual disability 50% Microcephaly 50% Nephroblastoma (Wilms tumor) 50% Nystagmus 50% Ptosis 50% Short stature 50% Visual impairment 50% Nephropathy 40% Abnormality of the vagina 33% Streak ovary 33% Abnormality of the uterus 7.5% Glaucoma 7.5% Gonadoblastoma 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% Obesity 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Renal insufficiency 10/46 Autosomal dominant inheritance - Contiguous gene syndrome - Somatic mutation - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1596,What are the treatments for Bowen-Conradi syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Bowen-Conradi syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Bowen-Conradi syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Feeding Tube--Infants   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1597,What are the treatments for Hemochromatosis ?,"Health care providers treat hemochromatosis by drawing blood. This process is called phlebotomy. Phlebotomy rids the body of extra iron. This treatment is simple, inexpensive, and safe.
                
Based on the severity of the iron overload, a patient will have phlebotomy to remove a pint of blood once or twice a week for several months to a year, and occasionally longer. Health care providers will test serum ferritin levels periodically to monitor iron levels. The goal is to bring serum ferritin levels to the low end of the average range and keep them there. Depending on the lab, the level is 25 to 50 g/L.
                
After phlebotomy reduces serum ferritin levels to the desired level, patients may need maintenance phlebotomy treatment every few months. Some patients may need phlebotomies more often. Serum ferritin tests every 6 months or once a year will help determine how often a patient should have blood drawn. Many blood donation centers provide free phlebotomy treatment for people with hemochromatosis.
                
Treating hemochromatosis before organs are damaged can prevent complications such as cirrhosis, heart problems, arthritis, and diabetes. Treatment cannot cure these conditions in patients who already have them at diagnosis. However, treatment will help most of these conditions improve. The treatments effectiveness depends on the degree of organ damage. For example, treating hemochromatosis can stop the progression of liver damage in its early stages and lead to a normal life expectancy. However, if a patient develops cirrhosis, his or her chance of developing liver cancer increases, even with phlebotomy treatment. Arthritis usually does not improve even after phlebotomy removes extra iron."
1598,What are the treatments for adiposis dolorosa ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of adiposis dolorosa:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lipomatosis dolorosa  - Merck Manual Consumer Version: Lipomas   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1599,What are the genetic changes related to anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia with immune deficiency ?,"Mutations in the IKBKG gene cause X-linked recessive EDA-ID, and mutations in the NFKBIA gene cause autosomal dominant EDA-ID. The proteins produced from these two genes regulate nuclear factor-kappa-B. Nuclear factor-kappa-B is a group of related proteins (a protein complex) that binds to DNA and controls the activity of other genes, including genes that direct the body's immune responses and inflammatory reactions. It also protects cells from certain signals that would otherwise cause them to self-destruct (undergo apoptosis).  The IKBKG and NFKBIA gene mutations responsible for EDA-ID result in the production of proteins with impaired function, which reduces activation of nuclear factor-kappa-B. These changes disrupt certain signaling pathways within immune cells, resulting in immune deficiency. It is unclear how gene mutations alter the development of the skin, teeth, sweat glands, and other tissues, although it is likely caused by abnormal nuclear factor-kappa-B signaling in other types of cells."
1600,How many people are affected by autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome ?,ALPS is a rare disorder; its prevalence is unknown. More than 200 affected individuals have been identified worldwide.
1601,"What are the symptoms of Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1 ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Crigler Najjar syndrome, type 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the liver 90% Hearing impairment 7.5% Memory impairment 7.5% Ophthalmoparesis 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Encephalopathy - Jaundice - Kernicterus - Unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1602,What is (are) Panic Disorder ?,"Panic disorder is a type of anxiety disorder. It causes panic attacks, which are sudden feelings of terror when there is no real danger. You may feel as if you are losing control. You may also have physical symptoms, such as       - Fast heartbeat    - Chest or stomach pain    - Breathing difficulty    - Weakness or dizziness    - Sweating    - Feeling hot or a cold chill    - Tingly or numb hands       Panic attacks can happen anytime, anywhere, and without warning. You may live in fear of another attack and may avoid places where you have had an attack. For some people, fear takes over their lives and they cannot leave their homes.    Panic disorder is more common in women than men. It usually starts when people are young adults. Sometimes it starts when a person is under a lot of stress. Most people get better with treatment. Therapy can show you how to recognize and change your thinking patterns before they lead to panic. Medicines can also help.    NIH: National Institute of Mental Health"
1603,What is (are) Klinefelter syndrome ?,"Klinefelter syndrome is a chromosomal condition that affects male physical and cognitive development. Its signs and symptoms vary among affected individuals.  Affected individuals typically have small testes that do not produce as much testosterone as usual. Testosterone is the hormone that directs male sexual development before birth and during puberty. A shortage of testosterone can lead to delayed or incomplete puberty, breast enlargement (gynecomastia), reduced facial and body hair, and an inability to have biological children (infertility). Some affected individuals also have genital differences including undescended testes (cryptorchidism), the opening of the urethra on the underside of the penis (hypospadias), or an unusually small penis (micropenis).  Older children and adults with Klinefelter syndrome tend to be taller than their peers. Compared with unaffected men, adults with Klinefelter syndrome have an increased risk of developing breast cancer and a chronic inflammatory disease called systemic lupus erythematosus. Their chance of developing these disorders is similar to that of women in the general population.  Children with Klinefelter syndrome may have learning disabilities and delayed speech and language development. They tend to be quiet, sensitive, and unassertive, but personality characteristics vary among affected individuals."
1604,What are the symptoms of Oculomaxillofacial dysostosis ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Oculomaxillofacial dysostosis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Oculomaxillofacial dysostosis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the eyelashes 50% Abnormality of the teeth 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 50% Cleft palate 50% Facial cleft 50% Median cleft lip 50% Opacification of the corneal stroma 50% Short stature 50% Underdeveloped nasal alae 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Wide nasal bridge 50% Abnormality of the humerus 7.5% Adducted thumb 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Coloboma 5% Deep palmar crease 5% Abnormality of the skeletal system - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cleft upper lip - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1605,What are the symptoms of Bare lymphocyte syndrome 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Bare lymphocyte syndrome 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Bare lymphocyte syndrome 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Agammaglobulinemia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Biliary tract abnormality - Chronic lymphocytic meningitis - Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis - Colitis - Cutaneous anergy - Encephalitis - Failure to thrive - Malabsorption - Neutropenia - Panhypogammaglobulinemia - Protracted diarrhea - Recurrent bacterial infections - Recurrent fungal infections - Recurrent lower respiratory tract infections - Recurrent protozoan infections - Recurrent upper respiratory tract infections - Recurrent urinary tract infections - Recurrent viral infections - Villous atrophy - Viral hepatitis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1606,Is mucolipidosis III gamma inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1607,What is (are) lamellar ichthyosis ?,"Lamellar ichthyosis is a condition that mainly affects the skin. Infants with this condition are typically born with a tight, clear sheath covering their skin called a collodion membrane. This membrane usually dries and peels off during the first few weeks of life, and then it becomes obvious that affected babies have scaly skin, and eyelids and lips that are turned outward. People with lamellar ichthyosis typically have large, dark, plate-like scales covering their skin on most of their body. Infants with lamellar ichthyosis may develop infections, an excessive loss of fluids (dehydration), and respiratory problems. Affected individuals may also have hair loss (alopecia), abnormally formed fingernails and toenails (nail dystrophy), a decreased ability to sweat (hypohidrosis), an increased sensitivity to heat, and a thickening of the skin on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet (keratoderma). Less frequently, affected individuals have reddened skin (erythema) and joint deformities (contractures)."
1608,What is (are) D-bifunctional protein deficiency ?,"D-bifunctional protein deficiency is a disorder that causes deterioration of nervous system functions (neurodegeneration) beginning in infancy. Newborns with D-bifunctional protein deficiency have weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and seizures. Most babies with this condition never acquire any developmental skills. Some may reach very early developmental milestones such as the ability to follow movement with their eyes or control their head movement, but they experience a gradual loss of these skills (developmental regression) within a few months. As the condition gets worse, affected children develop exaggerated reflexes (hyperreflexia), increased muscle tone (hypertonia), more severe and recurrent seizures (epilepsy), and loss of vision and hearing. Most children with D-bifunctional protein deficiency do not survive past the age of 2. A small number of individuals with this disorder are somewhat less severely affected. They may acquire additional basic skills, such as voluntary hand movements or unsupported sitting, before experiencing developmental regression, and they may survive longer into childhood than more severely affected individuals.  Individuals with D-bifunctional protein deficiency may have unusual facial features, including a high forehead, widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), a lengthened area between the nose and mouth (philtrum), and a high arch of the hard palate at the roof of the mouth. Affected infants may also have an unusually large space between the bones of the skull (fontanel). An enlarged liver (hepatomegaly) occurs in about half of affected individuals. Because these features are similar to those of another disorder called Zellweger syndrome (part of a group of disorders called the Zellweger spectrum), D-bifunctional protein deficiency is sometimes called pseudo-Zellweger syndrome."
1609,What to do for Overview of Kidney Disease in Children ?,"- Kidney disease can affect children in various ways, ranging from treatable disorders without long-term consequences to life-threatening conditions. Acute kidney disease develops suddenly, lasts a short time, and can be serious with long-lasting consequences, or may go away completely once the underlying cause has been treated.  - Chronic kidney disease (CKD) does not go away with treatment and tends to get worse over time.  - Kidney disease in children can be caused by      - birth defects    - hereditary diseases    - infection    - nephrotic syndrome    - systemic diseases    - trauma    - urine blockage or reflux    - A health care provider diagnoses kidney disease in children by completing a physical exam, asking for a medical history, and reviewing signs and symptoms. To confirm diagnosis, the health care provider may order one or more of the following tests:      - urine tests    - blood test    - imaging studies    - kidney biopsy    - Treatment for kidney disease in children depends on the cause of the illness.  - Children with a kidney disease that is causing high blood pressure may need to take medications to lower their blood pressure. Improving blood pressure can significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. As kidney function declines, children may need treatment for anemia and growth failure.  - Children with kidney disease that leads to kidney failure must receive treatment to replace the work the kidneys do. The two types of treatment are dialysis and transplantation.  - For children with CKD, learning about nutrition is vital because their diet can affect how well their kidneys work. Parents or guardians should always consult with their childs health care team before making any dietary changes."
1610,What are the genetic changes related to Paget disease of bone ?,"A combination of genetic and environmental factors likely play a role in causing Paget disease of bone. Researchers have identified changes in several genes that increase the risk of the disorder. Other factors, including infections with certain viruses, may be involved in triggering the disease in people who are at risk. However, the influence of genetic and environmental factors on the development of Paget disease of bone remains unclear.  Researchers have identified variations in three genes that are associated with Paget disease of bone: SQSTM1, TNFRSF11A, and TNFRSF11B. Mutations in the SQSTM1 gene are the most common genetic cause of classic Paget disease of bone, accounting for 10 to 50 percent of cases that run in families and 5 to 30 percent of cases in which there is no family history of the disease. Variations in the TNFRSF11B gene also appear to increase the risk of the classic form of the disorder, particularly in women. TNFRSF11A mutations cause the early-onset form of Paget disease of bone.  The SQSTM1, TNFRSF11A, and TNFRSF11B genes are involved in bone remodeling, a normal process in which old bone is broken down and new bone is created to replace it. Bones are constantly being remodeled, and the process is carefully controlled to ensure that bones stay strong and healthy. Paget disease of bone disrupts the bone remodeling process. Affected bone is broken down abnormally and then replaced much faster than usual. When the new bone tissue grows, it is larger, weaker, and less organized than normal bone. It is unclear why these problems with bone remodeling affect some bones but not others in people with this disease.  Researchers are looking for additional genes that may influence a person's chances of developing Paget disease of bone. Studies suggest that genetic variations in certain regions of chromosome 2, chromosome 5, and chromosome 10 appear to contribute to disease risk. However, the associated genes on these chromosomes have not been identified."
1611,What is (are) Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis ?,"PSC is a disease that damages and blocks bile ducts inside and outside the liver. Bile is a liquid made in the liver. Bile ducts are tubes that carry bile out of the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine. In the intestine, bile helps break down fat in food.
                
In PSC, inflammation of the bile ducts leads to scar formation and narrowing of the ducts over time. As scarring increases, the ducts become blocked. As a result, bile builds up in the liver and damages liver cells. Eventually, scar tissue can spread throughout the liver, causing cirrhosis and liver failure."
1612,How many people are affected by Meier-Gorlin syndrome ?,"Meier-Gorlin syndrome is a rare condition; however, its prevalence is unknown."
1613,How to diagnose Diabetic Neuropathies: The Nerve Damage of Diabetes ?,"Doctors diagnose neuropathy on the basis of symptoms and a physical exam. During the exam, the doctor may check blood pressure, heart rate, muscle strength, reflexes, and sensitivity to position changes, vibration, temperature, or light touch.
                
Foot Exams
                
Experts recommend that people with diabetes have a comprehensive foot exam each year to check for peripheral neuropathy. People diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy need more frequent foot exams. A comprehensive foot exam assesses the skin, muscles, bones, circulation, and sensation of the feet. The doctor may assess protective sensation or feeling in the feet by touching them with a nylon monofilamentsimilar to a bristle on a hairbrushattached to a wand or by pricking them with a pin. People who cannot sense pressure from a pinprick or monofilament have lost protective sensation and are at risk for developing foot sores that may not heal properly. The doctor may also check temperature perception or use a tuning fork, which is more sensitive than touch pressure, to assess vibration perception.
                
Other Tests
                
The doctor may perform other tests as part of the diagnosis.
                
- Nerve conduction studies or electromyography are sometimes used to help determine the type and extent of nerve damage. Nerve conduction studies check the transmission of electrical current through a nerve. Electromyography shows how well muscles respond to electrical signals transmitted by nearby nerves. These tests are rarely needed to diagnose neuropathy.  - A check of heart rate variability shows how the heart responds to deep breathing and to changes in blood pressure and posture.  - Ultrasound uses sound waves to produce an image of internal organs. An ultrasound of the bladder and other parts of the urinary tract, for example, can be used to assess the structure of these organs and show whether the bladder empties completely after urination."
1614,What are the treatments for factor V Leiden thrombophilia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of factor V Leiden thrombophilia:  - American College of Medical Genetics Consensus Statement on Factor V Leiden Mutation Testing  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Factor V Leiden Thrombophilia  - GeneFacts: Factor V Leiden-Associated Thrombosis: Diagnosis  - GeneFacts: Factor V Leiden-Associated Thrombosis: Management  - Genetic Testing Registry: Thrombophilia due to activated protein C resistance  - Genetic Testing Registry: Thrombophilia due to factor V Leiden  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Deep Venous Thrombosis  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Pulmonary Embolus   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1615,Who is at risk for Chapare Hemorrhagic Fever (CHHF)? ?,"CHHF occurs in the Cochabamba region of Bolivia. 
Field workers 
                
Field workers are at greatest risk because of increased human contact with the reservoir rodent population. Sexual partners of field workers may be at greater risk as well. Laboratory infections have been frequently described with Arenaviruses and Chapare virus can certainly be transmitted to laboratory workers during manipulation of the virus especially during experimental infections of rodents."
1616,What is (are) Craniopharyngioma ?,"A craniopharyngioma is a slow-growing benign tumor that develops near the pituitary gland (a small endocrine gland at the base of the brain) and the hypothalamus (a small cone-shaped organ connected to the pituitary gland by nerves). This tumor most commonly affects children between 5 and 10 years of age; however, adults can sometimes be affected. Craniopharyngiomas are thought to arise from remnants of the craniopharyngeal duct and/or Rathke cleft or from metaplasia (abnormal transformation of cells) of squamous epithelial cell remnants of the stomadeum.[orphanet] Craniopharyngioma is treated with surgery alone or by surgery followed by radiation."
1617,What is (are) Lattice corneal dystrophy type 3A ?,"Lattice corneal dystrophy type 3A is rare condition that affects the cornea. It is characterized primarily by protein clumps in the clear, outer covering of the eye which cloud the cornea and impair vision. Affected people also experience recurrent corneal erosion (separation of certain layers of the cornea), which is associated with severe pain and sensitivity to bright light. Lattice corneal dystrophy type 3A is caused by changes (mutations) in the TGFBI gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. The condition is usually treated surgically."
1618,What are the symptoms of Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ablepharon macrostomia syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Abnormality of the eyelashes 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 90% Cutis laxa 90% Fine hair 90% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Underdeveloped nasal alae 90% Wide mouth 90% Abnormality of female external genitalia 50% Anteverted nares 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the nipples 50% Breast aplasia 50% Camptodactyly of finger 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Cryptorchidism 50% Dry skin 50% Hearing impairment 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Microdontia 50% Myopia 50% Opacification of the corneal stroma 50% Thin skin 50% Umbilical hernia 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of skin pigmentation 7.5% Atresia of the external auditory canal 7.5% Corneal erosion 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Omphalocele 7.5% Thin vermilion border 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% Short upper lip 5% Talipes equinovarus 5% Ablepharon - Abnormal nasal morphology - Absent eyebrow - Absent eyelashes - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cryptophthalmos - Delayed speech and language development - Hypertelorism - Microtia, third degree - Ventral hernia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1619,What are the genetic changes related to lattice corneal dystrophy type I ?,"Lattice corneal dystrophy type I is caused by mutations in the TGFBI gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is found in many tissues throughout the body, including the cornea. The TGFBI protein is part of the extracellular matrix, an intricate network that forms in the spaces between cells and provides structural support to tissues. The protein is thought to play a role in the attachment of cells to one another (cell adhesion) and cell movement (migration).  The TGFBI gene mutations involved in lattice corneal dystrophy type I change single protein building blocks (amino acids) in the TGFBI protein. Mutated TGFBI proteins abnormally clump together and form amyloid deposits. However, it is unclear how the changes caused by the gene mutations induce the protein to form deposits."
1620,What are the genetic changes related to glycogen storage disease type III ?,"Mutations in the AGL gene cause GSDIII. The AGL gene provides instructions for making the glycogen debranching enzyme. This enzyme is involved in the breakdown of glycogen, which is a major source of stored energy in the body. Between meals the body breaks down stores of energy, such as glycogen, to use for fuel.  Most AGL gene mutations lead to the production of a nonfunctional glycogen debranching enzyme. These mutations typically cause GSD types IIIa and IIIb. The mutations that cause GSD types IIIc and IIId are thought to lead to the production of an enzyme with reduced function. All AGL gene mutations lead to storage of abnormal, partially broken down glycogen molecules within cells. A buildup of abnormal glycogen damages organs and tissues throughout the body, particularly the liver and muscles, leading to the signs and symptoms of GSDIII."
1621,What is (are) Parkinson's Disease ?,"Dopamine is a brain chemical messenger, or neurotransmitter. It is responsible for transmitting signals between a brain region called the substantia nigra and multiple brain regions. The connection between the substantia nigra and the corpus striatum is critical to produce smooth, purposeful movement. Loss of dopamine results in abnormal nerve-firing patterns within the brain that cause impaired movement."
1622,What is (are) Schwannomatosis ?,"Schwannomatosis is a rare form of neurofibromatosis that is primarily characterized by multiple schwannomas (benign tumors of the nervous system) in the absence of bilateral (affecting both sides) vestibular schwannomas. Signs and symptoms of the condition vary based on the size, location and number of schwannomas but may include pain; numbness; tingling; and/or weakness in the fingers and toes. Inherited forms of the disorder account for only 15 percent of all cases. In some of these families, schwannomatosis is caused by changes (mutations) in the SMARCB1 or LZTR1 genes; in other cases, the exact underlying cause is unknown. When inherited, the condition is passed down in an autosomal dominant manner with highly variable expressivity and reduced penetrance. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person but may include medications and/or surgery."
1623,What is (are) Barraquer-Simons syndrome ?,"Barraquer-Simons syndrome, or acquired partial lipodystrophy, is characterized by the loss of fat from the face, neck, shoulders, arms, forearms, chest and abdomen. Occasionally the groin or thighs are also affected. Onset usually begins in childhood following a viral illness. It affects females more often than males. The fat loss usually has a 18 month course, but can come and go over the course of several years.  Following puberty, affected women may experience a disproportionate accumulation of fat in the hips and lower limbs. Around 1 in 5 people with this syndrome develop membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. This kidney condition usually develops more than 10 years after the lipodystrophy's onset. Autoimmune disorders may also occur in association with this syndrome."
1624,What are the treatments for Christianson syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Christianson syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Christianson syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Seizures   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1625,"What is (are) Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?","Key Points
                    - Ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the ovaries, fallopian tubes, or peritoneum.    - In the United States, ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of cancer death in women.    -  Different factors increase or decrease the risk of getting ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer.
                
                
                    Ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the ovaries, fallopian tubes, or peritoneum.
                    The ovaries are a pair of organs in the female reproductive system. They are located in the pelvis, one on each side of the uterus (the hollow, pear-shaped organ where a fetus grows). Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. The ovaries produce eggs and female hormones (chemicals that control the way certain cells or organs function).   The fallopian tubes are a pair of long, slender tubes, one on each side of the uterus. Eggs pass from the ovaries, through the fallopian tubes, to the uterus. Cancer sometimes begins at the end of the fallopian tube near the ovary and spreads to the ovary.   The peritoneum is the tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers organs in the abdomen. Primary peritoneal cancer is cancer that forms in the peritoneum and has not spread there from another part of the body. Cancer sometimes begins in the peritoneum and spreads to the ovary.     Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer form in the same type of tissue. Studies of screening tests look at these cancers together.    See the following PDQ summaries for more information about ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers:         -   Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer Prevention     -  Genetics of Breast and Gynecologic Cancers     -  Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer Treatment     -  Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors Treatment     -  Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors Treatment
                
                
                    In the United States, ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of cancer death in women.
                    Ovarian cancer is also the leading cause of death from cancer of the female reproductive system. Over the last 20 years, the number of new cases of ovarian cancer has gone down slightly in white women and in black women. Since 2005, the number of deaths from ovarian cancer also decreased slightly in white and black women."
1626,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Neurological Consequences of Cytomegalovirus Infection ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), conduct research related to CMV infection in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Much of this research focuses on finding better ways to prevent and treat CMV infection in people at risk of severe neurological consequences, especially a safe and effective CMV vaccine."
1627,What causes Alzheimer's Disease ?,"Scientists do not yet fully understand what causes Alzheimer's disease in most people. In early-onset Alzheimers, which occurs in people between the ages of 30 and 60, a genetic mutation is usually the cause. Late-onset Alzheimers, which usually develops after age 60, arises from a complex series of brain changes that occur over decades. The causes probably include a mix of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors. These factors affect each person differently. Learn more about the genetics of Alzheimers disease.  Increasing age is the most important known risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Lifestyle factors, such as diet and physical exercise, and long-term health conditions, like high blood pressure and diabetes, might also play a role in the risk of developing Alzheimers disease."
1628,What are the treatments for ethylmalonic encephalopathy ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of ethylmalonic encephalopathy:  - Baby's First Test  - Genetic Testing Registry: Ethylmalonic encephalopathy  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Skin discoloration - bluish   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1629,What is (are) hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer ?,"Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer (HLRCC) is a disorder in which affected individuals tend to develop benign tumors containing smooth muscle tissue (leiomyomas) in the skin and, in females, the uterus. This condition also increases the risk of kidney cancer.  In this disorder, growths on the skin (cutaneous leiomyomas) typically develop in the third decade of life. Most of these growths arise from the tiny muscles around the hair follicles that cause ""goosebumps"". They appear as bumps or nodules on the trunk, arms, legs, and occasionally on the face. Cutaneous leiomyomas may be the same color as the surrounding skin, or they may be darker. Some affected individuals have no cutaneous leiomyomas or only a few, but the growths tend to increase in size and number over time. Cutaneous leiomyomas are often more sensitive than the surrounding skin to cold or light touch, and may be painful.  Most women with HLRCC also develop uterine leiomyomas (fibroids). While uterine fibroids are very common in the general population, women with HLRCC tend to have numerous large fibroids that appear earlier than in the general population.  Approximately 10 percent to 16 percent of people with HLRCC develop a type of kidney cancer called renal cell cancer. The signs and symptoms of renal cell cancer may include lower back pain, blood in the urine, or a mass in the kidney that can be felt upon physical examination. Some people with renal cell cancer have no symptoms until the disease is advanced. The average age at which people with HLRCC are diagnosed with kidney cancer is in their forties.  This disorder, especially if it appears in individuals or families without renal cell cancer, is also sometimes called multiple cutaneous leiomyomatosis (MCL) or multiple cutaneous and uterine leiomyomatosis (MCUL)."
1630,What are the symptoms of Paragangliomas 4 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Paragangliomas 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Paragangliomas 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Gastrointestinal stroma tumor 5% Neuroblastoma 5% Abnormality of urine catecholamine concentration - Adrenal pheochromocytoma - Adult onset - Anxiety (with pheochromocytoma) - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Chemodectoma - Diaphoresis (with pheochromocytoma) - Extraadrenal pheochromocytoma - Glomus jugular tumor - Headache (with pheochromocytoma) - Hypertension associated with pheochromocytoma - Incomplete penetrance - Palpitations - Palpitations (with pheochromocytoma) - Paraganglioma-related cranial nerve palsy - Pulsatile tinnitus (tympanic paraganglioma) - Renal cell carcinoma - Tachycardia (with pheochromocytoma) - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1631,What are the symptoms of Melanoma ?,"Signs of melanoma include a change in the way a mole or pigmented area looks. These and other signs and symptoms may be caused by melanoma or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you have any of the following:         - A mole that:                - changes in size, shape, or color.      - has irregular edges or borders.      - is more than one color.      - is asymmetrical (if the mole is divided in half, the 2 halves are different in size or shape).      - itches.      -  oozes, bleeds, or is ulcerated (a hole forms in the skin when the top layer of cells breaks down and the tissue below shows through).             - A change in pigmented (colored) skin.     - Satellite moles (new moles that grow near an existing mole).        For pictures and descriptions of common moles and melanoma, see Common Moles, Dysplastic Nevi, and Risk of Melanoma."
1632,What is (are) ADCY5-related dyskinesia ?,"ADCY5-related dyskinesia is a movement disorder; the term ""dyskinesia"" refers to abnormal involuntary movements. The abnormal movements that occur in ADCY5-related dyskinesia typically appear as sudden (paroxysmal) jerks, twitches, tremors, muscle tensing (dystonia), or writhing (choreiform) movements, and can affect the limbs, neck, and face.  The abnormal movements associated with ADCY5-related dyskinesia usually begin between infancy and late adolescence. They can occur continually during waking hours and in some cases also during sleep. Severely affected infants may experience weak muscle tone (hypotonia) and delay in development of motor skills such as crawling and walking; these individuals may have difficulties with activities of daily living and may eventually require a wheelchair. In more mildly affected individuals, the condition has little impact on walking and other motor skills, although the abnormal movements can lead to clumsiness or difficulty with social acceptance in school or other situations.  In some people with ADCY5-related dyskinesia, the disorder is generally stable throughout their lifetime. In others, it slowly gets worse (progresses) in both frequency and severity before stabilizing or even improving in middle age. Anxiety, fatigue, and other stress can temporarily increase the severity of the signs and symptoms of ADCY5-related dyskinesia, while some affected individuals may experience remission periods of days or weeks without abnormal movements. Life expectancy and intelligence are unaffected by this disorder."
1633,What are the genetic changes related to early-onset glaucoma ?,"Approximately 10 percent to 33 percent of people with juvenile open-angle glaucoma have mutations in the MYOC gene. MYOC gene mutations have also been detected in some people with primary congenital glaucoma. The MYOC gene provides instructions for producing a protein called myocilin. Myocilin is found in certain structures of the eye, called the trabecular meshwork and the ciliary body, that regulate the intraocular pressure.  Researchers believe that myocilin functions together with other proteins as part of a protein complex. Mutations may alter the protein in such a way that the complex cannot be formed. Defective myocilin that is not incorporated into functional complexes may accumulate in the trabecular meshwork and ciliary body. The excess protein may prevent sufficient flow of fluid from the eye, resulting in increased intraocular pressure and causing the signs and symptoms of early-onset glaucoma.  Between 20 percent and 40 percent of people with primary congenital glaucoma have mutations in the CYP1B1 gene. CYP1B1 gene mutations have also been detected in some people with juvenile open-angle glaucoma. The CYP1B1 gene provides instructions for producing a form of the cytochrome P450 protein. Like myocilin, this protein is found in the trabecular meshwork, ciliary body, and other structures of the eye.  It is not well understood how defects in the CYP1B1 protein cause signs and symptoms of glaucoma. Recent studies suggest that the defects may interfere with the early development of the trabecular meshwork. In the clear covering of the eye (the cornea), the CYP1B1 protein may also be involved in a process that regulates the secretion of fluid inside the eye. If this fluid is produced in excess, the high intraocular pressure characteristic of glaucoma may develop.  The CYP1B1 protein may interact with myocilin. Individuals with mutations in both the MYOC and CYP1B1 genes may develop glaucoma at an earlier age and have more severe symptoms than do those with mutations in only one of the genes. Mutations in other genes may also be involved in early-onset glaucoma."
1634,What are the genetic changes related to pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy ?,"Mutations in the ALDH7A1 gene cause pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy. The ALDH7A1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called -aminoadipic semialdehyde (-AASA) dehydrogenase, also known as antiquitin. This enzyme is involved in the breakdown of the protein building block (amino acid) lysine in the brain.  When antiquitin is deficient, a molecule that interferes with vitamin B6 function builds up in various tissues. Pyridoxine plays a role in many processes in the body, such as the breakdown of amino acids and the productions of chemicals that transmit signals in the brain (neurotransmitters). It is unclear how a lack of pyridoxine causes the seizures that are characteristic of this condition.  Some individuals with pyridoxine-dependent epilepsy do not have identified mutations in the ALDH7A1 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown."
1635,Do you have information about Pregnancy and Medicines,"Summary : Not all medicines are safe to take when you are pregnant. Some medicines can harm your baby. That includes over-the-counter or prescription drugs, herbs, and supplements.    Always speak with your health care provider before you start or stop any medicine. Not using medicine that you need may be more harmful to you and your baby than using the medicine. For example, many pregnant women take prescription medicines for health problems like diabetes, asthma, seizures, and heartburn. The decision about whether or not to take a medicine depends on the risks and benefits. You and your health care provider should make this choice together.    Pregnant women should not take regular vitamins. They may have too much or too little of the vitamins that you need. There are special vitamins for pregnant women. It is important to take 0.4 mg of folic acid every day before you become pregnant through the first part of your pregnancy. Folic acid helps to prevent birth defects of the baby's brain or spine.    Food and Drug Administration"
1636,Who is at risk for Pyelonephritis: Kidney Infection? ?,"People most at risk for pyelonephritis are those who have a bladder infection and those with a structural, or anatomic, problem in the urinary tract. Urine normally flows only in one directionfrom the kidneys to the bladder. However, the flow of urine may be blocked in people with a structural defect of the urinary tract, a kidney stone, or an enlarged prostatethe walnut-shaped gland in men that surrounds the urethra at the neck of the bladder and supplies fluid that goes into semen. Urine can also back up, or reflux, into one or both kidneys. This problem, which is called vesicoureteral reflux (VUR), happens when the valve mechanism that normally prevents backward flow of urine is not working properly. VUR is most commonly diagnosed during childhood. Pregnant women and people with diabetes or a weakened immune system are also at increased risk of pyelonephritis."
1637,What are the complications of Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome ?,"The complications of childhood nephrotic syndrome may include
                
- infection. When the kidneys are damaged, a child is more likely to develop infections because the body loses proteins that normally protect against infection. Health care providers will prescribe medications to treat infections. Children with childhood nephrotic syndrome should receive the pneumococcal vaccine and yearly flu shots to prevent those infections. Children should also receive age-appropriate vaccinations, although a health care provider may delay certain live vaccines while a child is taking certain medications.  - blood clots. Blood clots can block the flow of blood and oxygen through a blood vessel anywhere in the body. A child is more likely to develop clots when he or she loses proteins through the urine. The health care provider will treat blood clots with blood-thinning medications.  - high blood cholesterol. When albumin leaks into the urine, the albumin levels in the blood drop. The liver makes more albumin to make up for the low levels in the blood. At the same time, the liver makes more cholesterol. Sometimes children may need treatment with medications to lower blood cholesterol levels."
1638,What is (are) Parasites - Angiostrongyliasis (also known as Angiostrongylus Infection) ?,Angiostrongylus cantonensis is a parasitic worm of rats. It is also called the rat lungworm. The adult form of the parasite is found only in rodents. Infected rats pass larvae of the parasite in their feces. Snails and slugs get infected by ingesting the larvae. These larvae mature in snails and slugs but do not become adult worms. The life cycle is completed when rats eat infected snails or slugs and the larvae further mature to become adult worms.
1639,What is (are) Dentinogenesis imperfecta type 2 ?,"Dentinogenesis imperfecta type 2 is a rare and severe form of dentinogenesis imperfecta, a condition that affects tooth development. People affected by the condition may have weak and discolored teeth. These problems can affect both primary (baby) teeth and permanent teeth. People with this form of dentinogenesis imperfecta have no normal teeth. Sensorineural hearing loss has also been found in some affected people. Dentinogenesis imperfecta type 2 is caused by changes (mutations) in the DSPP gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment is usually focused on protecting primary (baby) and then permanent teeth with preformed pediatric crowns and other interventions. The replacement of teeth might be considered in the future with dentures and/or implants."
1640,What are the symptoms of Autosomal dominant intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type E ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Autosomal dominant intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type E? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Autosomal dominant intermediate Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type E. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Stage 5 chronic kidney disease 5% Areflexia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Axonal loss - Distal lower limb amyotrophy - Distal muscle weakness - Distal sensory impairment - Distal upper limb amyotrophy - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis - Foot dorsiflexor weakness - Hammertoe - Hyporeflexia - Onion bulb formation - Pes cavus - Progressive - Proteinuria - Split hand - Steppage gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1641,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica ?,"The NINDS supports a broad range of research on neurodegenerative disorders such as Dyssynergia Cerebellaris Myoclonica. The goals of this research are to find ways to prevent, treat, and cure these kinds of disorders."
1642,What is (are) Sneddon syndrome ?,"Sneddon syndrome is a progressive condition characterized by livedo reticularis (bluish net-like patterns of discoloration on the skin) and neurological abnormalities. Symptoms may include headache, dizziness, high blood pressure, heart disease, mini-strokes and/or stroke. Reduced blood flow to the brain may cause lesions to develop within the central nervous system. This can lead to reduced mental capacity, memory loss and other neurological symptoms. The exact cause of Sneddon syndrome is unknown. Some familial cases have been described. It has also been associated with obliterating vasculitis and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome."
1643,What are the treatments for Simple Kidney Cysts ?,"Treatment is not needed for simple kidney cysts that do not cause any symptoms. Simple kidney cysts may be monitored with periodic ultrasounds.
                
Simple kidney cysts that are causing symptoms or blocking the flow of blood or urine through the kidney may need to be treated using a procedure called sclerotherapy. In sclerotherapy, the doctor punctures the cyst using a long needle inserted through the skin. Ultrasound is used to guide the needle to the cyst. The cyst is drained and then filled with a solution containing alcohol to make the kidney tissue harder. The procedure is usually performed on an outpatient basis with a local anesthetic.
                
If the cyst is large, surgery may be needed. Most surgeries can be performed using a laparoscopea special tool with a small, lighted video camera. The procedure is usually done under general anesthesia in a hospital. The surgeon drains the cyst and then removes or burns away its outer tissue. This type of surgery allows for a smaller incision and quicker recovery."
1644,How to prevent Atrial Fibrillation ?,"Following a healthy lifestyle and taking steps to lower your risk for heart disease may help you prevent atrial fibrillation (AF). These steps include:
                
Following a heart healthy diet that's low in saturated fat, trans fat, and cholesterol. A healthy diet includes a variety of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables daily.
                
Not smoking.
                
Being physically active.
                
Maintaining a healthy weight.
                
If you already have heart disease or other AF risk factors, work with your doctor to manage your condition. In addition to adopting the healthy habits above, which can help control heart disease, your doctor may advise you to: 
                
Follow the DASH eating plan to help lower your blood pressure.
                
Keep your cholesterol and triglycerides at healthy levels with dietary changes and medicines (if prescribed).
                
Limit or avoid alcohol.
                
Control your blood sugar level if you have diabetes.
                
Get ongoing medical care and take your medicines as prescribed.
                
For more information about following a healthy lifestyle, visit the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Aim for a Healthy Weight Web site, ""Your Guide to a Healthy Heart,"" ""Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure With DASH,"" and ""Your Guide to Physical Activity and Your Heart."""
1645,What causes Heart Failure ?,"Heart failure is caused by other diseases or conditions that damage the heart muscle such as coronary artery disease (including heart attacks), diabetes, and high blood pressure. Treating these problems can prevent or improve heart failure. Coronary Artery Disease Coronary artery disease is a leading cause of death in men and women. It happens when the arteries that supply blood to the heart become hardened and narrowed. High Blood Pressure High blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries. If this pressure rises and stays high over time, it can weaken your heart and lead to plaque buildup, which can then lead to heart failure. Diabetes Diabetes is characterized by having too much glucose, or sugar, in the blood for a long time. This can cause heart problems because high blood glucose can damage parts of the body such as the heart and blood vessels. This damage weakens the heart, often leading to heart failure. Other Diseases Other diseases and conditions also can lead to heart failure, such as - Cardiomyopathy (KAR-de-o-mi-OP-ah-thee), or heart muscle disease. Cardiomyopathy may be present at birth or caused by injury or infection.   - Heart valve disease. Problems with the heart valves may be present at birth or caused by infection, heart attack, or damage from heart disease.   - Arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs), or irregular heartbeats. These heart problems may be present at birth or caused by heart disease or heart defects.   - Congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart defects. These problems with the heart's structure are present at birth.  Cardiomyopathy (KAR-de-o-mi-OP-ah-thee), or heart muscle disease. Cardiomyopathy may be present at birth or caused by injury or infection. Heart valve disease. Problems with the heart valves may be present at birth or caused by infection, heart attack, or damage from heart disease. Arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs), or irregular heartbeats. These heart problems may be present at birth or caused by heart disease or heart defects. Congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) heart defects. These problems with the heart's structure are present at birth. Other Factors Other factors also can injure the heart muscle and lead to heart failure. Examples include - treatments for cancer, such as radiation and chemotherapy   - thyroid disorders (having either too much or too little thyroid hormone in the body)  - alcohol abuse or cocaine and other illegal drug use   - HIV/AIDS   - too much vitamin E.  treatments for cancer, such as radiation and chemotherapy thyroid disorders (having either too much or too little thyroid hormone in the body) alcohol abuse or cocaine and other illegal drug use HIV/AIDS too much vitamin E. Sleep Apnea Heart damage from obstructive sleep apnea may worsen heart failure. Sleep apnea is a common disorder in which you have one or more pauses in breathing or shallow breaths while you sleep. Sleep apnea can deprive your heart of oxygen and increase its workload. Treating this sleep disorder might improve heart failure. Who Is at Risk? Heart failure can happen to almost anyone. It is the number one reason for hospitalization for people over age 65. Heart failure is more common in - people who are 65 years old or older   - African-Americans  - people who are overweight  - people who have had a heart attack  - men.  people who are 65 years old or older African-Americans people who are overweight people who have had a heart attack men. Aging can weaken the heart muscle. Older people also may have had diseases for many years that led to heart failure. African Americans are more likely to have heart failure than people of other races. They're also more likely to have symptoms at a younger age, have more hospital visits due to heart failure, and die from heart failure.  Excess weight puts strain on the heart. Being overweight also increases your risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. These diseases can lead to heart failure. A history of a heart attack puts people at greater risk for heart failure. Men have a higher rate of heart failure than women."
1646,What is (are) Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy ?,"Doyne honeycomb retinal dystrophy (DHRD) is a condition that affects the eyes and causes vision loss. It is characterized by small, round, white spots known as drusen that accumulate beneath the retinal pigment epithelium (the pigmented layer of the retina). Over time, drusen may grow and come together, creating a honeycomb pattern. It usually begins in early to mid adulthood, but the age of onset varies. The degree of vision loss also varies. DHRD is usually caused by mutations in the EFEMP1 gene and is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner."
1647,What is (are) oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?,"Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is a genetic condition characterized by muscle weakness that begins in adulthood, typically after age 40. The first symptom in people with this disorder is usually droopy eyelids (ptosis), followed by difficulty swallowing (dysphagia). The swallowing difficulties begin with food, but as the condition progresses, liquids can be difficult to swallow as well. Many people with this condition have weakness and wasting (atrophy) of the tongue. These problems with food intake may cause malnutrition. Some affected individuals also have weakness in other facial muscles.  Individuals with oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy frequently have weakness in the muscles near the center of the body (proximal muscles), particularly muscles in the upper legs and hips. The weakness progresses slowly over time, and people may need the aid of a cane or a walker. Rarely, affected individuals need wheelchair assistance.  There are two types of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, which are distinguished by their pattern of inheritance. They are known as the autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive types."
1648,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Parkinson's Disease ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts PD research in laboratories at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and also supports additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Current research programs funded by the NINDS are using animal models to study how the disease progresses and to develop new drug therapies. Scientists looking for the cause of PD continue to search for possible environmental factors, such as toxins, that may trigger the disorder, and study genetic factors to determine how defective genes play a role. Other scientists are working to develop new protective drugs that can delay, prevent, or reverse the disease.
                
http://www.ninds.nih.gov/research/parkinsonsweb/index.htm"
1649,What causes Holt-Oram syndrome ?,"What causes Holt-Oram syndrome? Holt-Oram syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the TBX5 gene. This gene gives the body instructions for making a protein involved in the development of the heart and upper limbs before birth. In particular, this gene seems important for dividing the developing heart into four chambers, and in regulating the development of bones in the arms and hands. When the TBX5 gene doesn't function properly, the features of Holt-Oram syndrome result. In some cases the mutation occurs for the first time in an affected person, while in other cases the mutation is inherited from a parent. However, in both of these cases, there is nothing a parent can do to cause this mutation or condition in a child."
1650,Do you have information about Healthy Living,"Summary : Many factors affect your health. Some you cannot control, such as your genetic makeup or your age. But you can make changes to your lifestyle. By taking steps toward healthy living, you can help reduce your risk of heart disease, cancer, stroke and other serious diseases:       - Get the screening tests you need    - Maintain a healthy weight    - Eat a variety of healthy foods, and limit calories and saturated fat    - Be physically active    - Control your blood pressure and cholesterol    - Don't smoke    - Protect yourself from too much sun    - Drink alcohol in moderation, or don't drink at all       Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality"
1651,What is (are) Heart Failure ?,"Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. In some cases, the heart can't fill with enough blood. In other cases, the heart can't pump blood to the rest of the body with enough force. Some people have both problems.
                
The term ""heart failure"" doesn't mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. However, heart failure is a serious condition that requires medical care.
                
Overview
                
Heart failure develops over time as the heart's pumping action grows weaker. The condition can affect the right side of the heart only, or it can affect both sides of the heart. Most cases involve both sides of the heart.
                
Right-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen. Left-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body.
                
Right-side heart failure may cause fluid to build up in the feet, ankles, legs, liver, abdomen, and the veins in the neck. Right-side and left-side heart failure also may cause shortness of breath and fatigue (tiredness).
                
The leading causes of heart failure are diseases that damage the heart. Examples include coronary heart disease (CHD), high blood pressure, and diabetes.
                
Outlook
                
Heart failure is a very common condition. About 5.7 million people in the United States have heart failure.Both children and adults can have the condition, although the symptoms and treatments differ. The Health Topicfocuses on heart failure in adults.
                
Currently, heart failure has no cure. However, treatmentssuch as medicines and lifestyle changescan help people who have the condition live longer and more active lives. Researchers continue to study new ways to treat heart failure and its complications."
1652,What are the treatments for arterial tortuosity syndrome ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of arterial tortuosity syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Arterial Tortuosity Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Arterial tortuosity syndrome  - Johns Hopkins McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How is an Aneurysm Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1653,What are the symptoms of 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome? 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome is characterized by developmental delay, microcephaly, short stature, heart defects and hand, foot and limb abnormalities. All individuals reported to date have had mild to moderate developmental delay, in particular delays in speech. Most have had heart defects, including patent ductus arteriosus or atrial septal defects. Limb abnormalities include long, thin fingers and toes, and hypoplasia (underdevelopment) of the patellae (knee caps). Scoliosis may also be present. Many patients have also had mild and unspecific unusual facial features. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 17q23.1q23.2 microdeletion syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arachnodactyly 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Long toe 90% Frontal bossing 50% Intrauterine growth retardation 50% Microcephaly 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Patent ductus arteriosus 50% Pulmonary hypertension 50% Short stature 50% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 7.5% Abnormality of the eyelashes 7.5% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Abnormality of the teeth 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Behavioral abnormality 7.5% Blepharitis 7.5% Camptodactyly of toe 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Epicanthus 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Highly arched eyebrow 7.5% Hyperreflexia 7.5% Hypertelorism 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Malar flattening 7.5% Midline defect of the nose 7.5% Muscular hypotonia 7.5% Narrow mouth 7.5% Otitis media 7.5% Patellar aplasia 7.5% Pes planus 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Sacral dimple 7.5% Sandal gap 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Shawl scrotum 7.5% Single transverse palmar crease 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Abnormal facial shape - Aggressive behavior - Bicuspid aortic valve - Intellectual disability, mild - Long fingers - Postnatal growth retardation - Slender finger - Small for gestational age - Sporadic - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1654,What is (are) Good syndrome ?,"Good syndrome is a rare, adult-onset primary immunodeficiency suspected in patients who exhibit hypogammaglobulinemia and low levels of B cells along with a benign thymic tumor (thymoma) on chest X-ray. Symptoms include frequent opportunistic infections involving the sinuses and lungs, including severe CMV disease, P. carinii pneumonia, and mucocutaneous candidiasis. While the cause of Good syndrome remains unknown, there is some evidence that a defect of the bone marrow is involved. Treatment includes removal of the thymic tumor and immunoglobulin replacement."
1655,What are the symptoms of Phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Phosphoglycerate mutase deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Exercise intolerance - Exercise-induced muscle cramps - Exercise-induced myalgia - Myoglobinuria - Myopathy - Renal insufficiency - Rhabdomyolysis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1656,What is (are) Colon Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - Colon cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the colon.    - Health history affects the risk of developing colon cancer.    - Signs of colon cancer include blood in the stool or a change in bowel habits.    - Tests that examine the colon and rectum are used to detect (find) and diagnose colon cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Colon cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the colon.
                    The colon is part of the bodys digestive system. The digestive system removes and processes nutrients (vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and water) from foods and helps pass waste material out of the body. The digestive system is made up of the esophagus, stomach, and the small and large intestines. The colon (large bowel) is the first part of the large intestine and is about 5 feet long. Together, the rectum and anal canal make up the last part of the large intestine and are about 6-8 inches long. The anal canal ends at the anus (the opening of the large intestine to the outside of the body).      Gastrointestinal stromal tumors can occur in the colon. See the PDQ summary on Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Treatment for more information.    See the PDQ summary about Unusual Cancers of Childhood Treatment for information about colorectal cancer in children."
1657,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Encephalopathy ?,"The NINDS supports and conducts research on brain diseases. Much of this research is aimed at characterizing the agents that cause these disorders, clarifying the mechanisms underlying them, and, ultimately, finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them."
1658,What are the symptoms of Lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Lymphedema-distichiasis syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Corneal erosion 90% Distichiasis 90% Photophobia 90% Cataract 50% Muscle weakness 50% Ptosis 50% Abnormality of the pulmonary vasculature 7.5% Arrhythmia 7.5% Benign neoplasm of the central nervous system 7.5% Diabetes mellitus 7.5% Glomerulopathy 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Proteinuria 7.5% Recurrent urinary tract infections 7.5% Renal duplication 7.5% Sarcoma 7.5% Skin ulcer 7.5% Webbed neck 7.5% Cleft palate 4% Cleft upper lip 4% Abnormality of the musculature - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Conjunctivitis - Corneal ulceration - Lymphedema - Predominantly lower limb lymphedema - Recurrent corneal erosions - Tetralogy of Fallot - Varicose veins - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1659,What are the symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 14 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spinocerebellar ataxia 14? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spinocerebellar ataxia 14. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cerebellar atrophy - Depression - Dysarthria - Dysmetria - Dysphagia - Facial myokymia - Focal dystonia - Gait ataxia - Hyperreflexia - Impaired vibration sensation at ankles - Incomplete penetrance - Memory impairment - Mental deterioration - Nystagmus - Progressive cerebellar ataxia - Slow progression - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1660,"What are the symptoms of Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of temperature regulation 90% Abnormality of the oral cavity 90% Arthralgia 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Encephalitis 90% Lymphadenopathy 90% Migraine 90% Recurrent pharyngitis 90% Weight loss 90% Abdominal pain 7.5% Arthritis 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Malabsorption 7.5% Nausea and vomiting 7.5% Splenomegaly 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1661,What are the treatments for Ankylosing spondylitis ?,"How might ankylosing spondylitis be treated? The main goal of treatment for people with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is to maximize long-term quality of life. This may involve easing symptoms of pain and stiffness; retaining function; preventing complications (such as contractures); and minimizing the effects of associated conditions. Education, exercise, and medications are all very important in managing AS. An exercise program is recommended for all affected people, and some may need individual physical therapy. Affected people are encouraged to speak with their health care provider before instituting any changes to an exercise regime. Video demonstrations of exercises tailored for ankylosing spondylitis are available for viewing through the National Ankylosing Spondylitis Society in the UK. Medications may include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); pain relievers; sulfasalazine; and anti-tumor necrosis factor drugs. Steroid injections may be helpful for some people. Most people don't need surgery, but it may be indicated when there is severe, persistent pain or severe limitation in mobility and quality of life. Smoking creates additional problems for people with AS, so affected people who smoke should quit. More detailed information about the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis is available on Medscape's Web site. You may need to register to view the article, but registration is free."
1662,What are the symptoms of Erythromelalgia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Erythromelalgia? Currently it is very difficult to predict how a person's primary erythromelalgia will affect them overtime. The cause of primary erythromelalgia is not well understood. Much of the literature regarding the long term outlook for people with idiopathic primary erythromelalgia is compiled from individual case reports. Erythromelalgia is usually a chronic or persistent condition, however there have been cases that have fully resolved with time. Many people with primary erythromelalgia have stable symptoms, however cases of progressive disease (symptoms worsening overtime) have also been described. Pain is a characteristic/classic feature of primary erythromelalgia. Unfortunately we were not able to find information specific to painless cases of this disorder, and outcomes of these individuals. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Erythromelalgia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Dysautonomia 5% Abnormality of the musculature - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Blurred vision - Constipation - Diarrhea - Hyperhidrosis - Juvenile onset - Myalgia - Pain - Palpitations - Xerostomia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1663,What is (are) Kidney Stones ?,"A kidney stone is a solid piece of material that forms in the kidney from substances in the urine. It may be as small as a grain of sand or as large as a pearl. Most kidney stones pass out of the body without help from a doctor. But sometimes a stone will not go away. It may get stuck in the urinary tract, block the flow of urine and cause great pain.     The following may be signs of kidney stones that need a doctor's help:       -  Extreme pain in your back or side that will not go away    -  Blood in your urine    -  Fever and chills    -  Vomiting    -  Urine that smells bad or looks cloudy    -  A burning feeling when you urinate       Your doctor will diagnose a kidney stone with urine, blood, and imaging tests.    If you have a stone that won't pass on its own, you may need treatment. It can be done with shock waves; with a scope inserted through the tube that carries urine out of the body, called the urethra; or with surgery.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1664,What are the symptoms of Microtia-Anotia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Microtia-Anotia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Microtia-Anotia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anotia - Holoprosencephaly - Microtia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1665,How many people are affected by systemic scleroderma ?,"The prevalence of systemic scleroderma is estimated to range from 50 to 300 cases per 1 million people. For reasons that are unknown, women are four times more likely to develop the condition than men."
1666,What are the symptoms of Esthesioneuroblastoma ?,What symptoms are associated with esthesioneuroblastoma? Symptoms of esthesioneuroblastoma may include one or more of the following: Nasal obstruction Loss of smell Chronic sinus infections (sinusitis) Nasal bleeding Sinus pain and headache  Visual changes
1667,What is (are) Complement component 2 deficiency ?,Complement component 2 deficiency (C2D) is a genetic condition that affects the immune system. Signs and symptoms include recurrent bacterial infections and risk for a variety of autoimmune conditions. Infections can be very serious and are common in early life. They become less frequent during the teen and adult years. The most frequent autoimmune conditions associated with C2D are lupus (10-20%) and vasculitis. C2D is caused by mutations in the C2 gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.
1668,What are the genetic changes related to glycogen storage disease type V ?,"Mutations in the PYGM gene cause GSDV. The PYGM gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called myophosphorylase. This enzyme is found only in muscle cells, where it breaks down glycogen into a simpler sugar called glucose-1-phosphate. Additional steps convert glucose-1-phosphate into glucose, a simple sugar that is the main energy source for most cells.  PYGM gene mutations prevent myophosphorylase from breaking down glycogen effectively. As a result, muscle cells cannot produce enough energy, so muscles become easily fatigued. Reduced energy production in muscle cells leads to the major features of GSDV."
1669,What are the genetic changes related to maple syrup urine disease ?,"Mutations in the BCKDHA, BCKDHB, and DBT genes can cause maple syrup urine disease. These three genes provide instructions for making proteins that work together as a complex. The protein complex is essential for breaking down the amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine, which are present in many kinds of food, particularly protein-rich foods such as milk, meat, and eggs.  Mutations in any of these three genes reduce or eliminate the function of the protein complex, preventing the normal breakdown of leucine, isoleucine, and valine. As a result, these amino acids and their byproducts build up in the body. Because high levels of these substances are toxic to the brain and other organs, their accumulation leads to the serious health problems associated with maple syrup urine disease."
1670,What is (are) uromodulin-associated kidney disease ?,"Uromodulin-associated kidney disease is an inherited condition that affects the kidneys. The signs and symptoms of this condition vary, even among members of the same family.  Many individuals with uromodulin-associated kidney disease develop high blood levels of a waste product called uric acid. Normally, the kidneys remove uric acid from the blood and transfer it to urine. In this condition, the kidneys are unable to remove uric acid from the blood effectively. A buildup of uric acid can cause gout, which is a form of arthritis resulting from uric acid crystals in the joints. The signs and symptoms of gout may appear as early as a person's teens in uromodulin-associated kidney disease.  Uromodulin-associated kidney disease causes slowly progressive kidney disease, with the signs and symptoms usually beginning during the teenage years. The kidneys become less able to filter fluids and waste products from the body as this condition progresses, resulting in kidney failure. Individuals with uromodulin-associated kidney disease typically require either dialysis to remove wastes from the blood or a kidney transplant between the ages of 30 and 70. Occasionally, affected individuals are found to have small kidneys or kidney cysts (medullary cysts)."
1671,What are the treatments for adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency:  - Boston Children's Hospital: Pediatric Kidney Stones in Children  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Adenine Phosphoribosyltransferase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1672,What are the symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Spondylocostal dysostosis 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Spondylocostal dysostosis 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of immune system physiology 90% Abnormality of the intervertebral disk 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Respiratory insufficiency 90% Scoliosis 90% Short neck 90% Short stature 90% Short thorax 90% Vertebral segmentation defect 90% Kyphosis 50% Abnormality of female internal genitalia 7.5% Abnormality of the ureter 7.5% Anomalous pulmonary venous return 7.5% Anteverted nares 7.5% Broad forehead 7.5% Camptodactyly of finger 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Depressed nasal bridge 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Long philtrum 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Meningocele 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Prominent occiput 7.5% Spina bifida occulta 7.5% Umbilical hernia 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Abnormality of the odontoid process - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Block vertebrae - Death in infancy - Disproportionate short-trunk short stature - Hemivertebrae - Recurrent respiratory infections - Rib fusion - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1673,What are the treatments for Kennedy's Disease ?,Currently there is no known cure for Kennedy's disease. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. Physical therapy and rehabilitation to slow muscle weakness and atrophy may prove helpful.
1674,What is (are) Kuru ?,"Kuru is a rare and fatal brain disorder that occurred at epidemic levels during the 1950s-60s among the Fore people in the highlands of New Guinea. The disease was the result of the practice of ritualistic cannibalism among the Fore, in which relatives prepared and consumed the tissues (including brain) of deceased family members. Brain tissue from individuals with kuru was highly infectious, and the disease was transmitted either through eating or by contact with open sores or wounds. Government discouragement of the practice of cannibalism led to a continuing decline in the disease, which has now mostly disappeared.
                
Kuru belongs to a class of infectious diseases called transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), also known as prion diseases. The hallmark of a TSE disease is misshapen protein molecules that clump together and accumulate in brain tissue. Scientists believe that misshapen prion proteins have the ability to change their shape and cause other proteins of the same type to also change shape. Other TSEs include Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and fatal familial insomnia in humans, bovine spongiform encephalopathy in cattle (also known as mad cow disease), scrapie in sheep and goats, and chronic wasting disease in deer and elk."
1675,Is tuberous sclerosis complex inherited ?,"Tuberous sclerosis complex has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to increase the risk of developing tumors and other problems with development. In about one-third of cases, an affected person inherits an altered TSC1 or TSC2 gene from a parent who has the disorder. The remaining two-thirds of people with tuberous sclerosis complex are born with new mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 gene. These cases, which are described as sporadic, occur in people with no history of tuberous sclerosis complex in their family. TSC1 mutations appear to be more common in familial cases of tuberous sclerosis complex, while mutations in the TSC2 gene occur more frequently in sporadic cases."
1676,What are the treatments for multiple familial trichoepithelioma ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of multiple familial trichoepithelioma:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Familial multiple trichoepitheliomata  - Genetic Testing Registry: Trichoepithelioma multiple familial 2   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1677,Do you have information about Toddler Nutrition,"Summary : Food provides the energy and nutrients that young children need to be healthy. Toddlers are learning to feed themselves and to eat new foods. They should eat a variety of foods from all of the food groups.    Each day, toddlers need enough nutrients, including       - 7 milligrams of iron    - 700 milligrams of calcium    - 600 IU of vitamin D"
1678,What are the symptoms of Noonan syndrome 4 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Noonan syndrome 4? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Noonan syndrome 4. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Prolonged bleeding time 5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Blue irides - Cryptorchidism - Cubitus valgus - Curly hair - Dental malocclusion - Depressed nasal bridge - Epicanthus - High anterior hairline - Hypertelorism - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears - Macrocephaly - Pectus excavatum of inferior sternum - Ptosis - Pulmonic stenosis - Scoliosis - Short neck - Short stature - Sparse eyebrow - Thick lower lip vermilion - Ventricular septal defect - Webbed neck - Wide intermamillary distance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1679,How many people are affected by combined pituitary hormone deficiency ?,"The prevalence of combined pituitary hormone deficiency is estimated to be 1 in 8,000 individuals worldwide."
1680,What is (are) Carbon baby syndrome ?,"Carbon baby syndrome, also known as universal acquired melanosis, is a rare form of hyperpigmentation. The skin of affected infants progressively darkens over the first years of life in the absence of other symptoms. The cause of the condition is unknown."
1681,What are the symptoms of Cockayne syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Cockayne syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cockayne syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal blistering of the skin 90% Abnormality of the nose 90% Carious teeth 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Cutaneous photosensitivity 90% Deeply set eye 90% Hyperreflexia 90% Hypertonia 90% Incoordination 90% Macrotia 90% Microcephaly 90% Peripheral neuropathy 90% Prematurely aged appearance 90% Retinopathy 90% Sensorineural hearing impairment 90% Short stature 90% Abnormal hair quantity 50% Abnormality of the foot 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 50% Atypical scarring of skin 50% Cerebral calcification 50% Cerebral cortical atrophy 50% Chorioretinal abnormality 50% Decreased nerve conduction velocity 50% Dental malocclusion 50% Disproportionate tall stature 50% EEG abnormality 50% Fine hair 50% Generalized hyperpigmentation 50% Hypertension 50% Kyphosis 50% Large hands 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Strabismus 50% Tremor 50% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 7.5% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 7.5% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 7.5% Breast aplasia 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Delayed eruption of teeth 7.5% Glomerulopathy 7.5% Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 7.5% Nephrotic syndrome 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Oral cleft 7.5% Platyspondyly 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Telangiectasia of the skin 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1682,What are the symptoms of Cardiogenic Shock ?,"A lack of oxygen-rich blood reaching the brain, kidneys, skin, and other parts of the body causes the signs and symptoms of cardiogenic shock.
                
Some of the typical signs and symptoms of shock usually include at least two or more of the following:
                
Confusion or lack of alertness
                
Loss of consciousness
                
A sudden and ongoing rapid heartbeat
                
Sweating
                
Pale skin
                
A weak pulse
                
Rapid breathing
                
Decreased or no urine output
                
Cool hands and feet
                
Any of these alone is unlikely to be a sign or symptom of shock.
                
If you or someone else is having these signs and symptoms, call 911 right away for emergency treatment. Prompt medical care can save your life and prevent or limit organ damage."
1683,Is alpha-mannosidosis inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1684,What are the stages of Salivary Gland Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - After salivary gland cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the salivary gland or to other parts of the body.     - There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.    - Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.    - The following stages are used for major salivary gland cancers:         - Stage I     - Stage II     - Stage III     - Stage IV
                
                
                    After salivary gland cancer has been diagnosed, tests are done to find out if cancer cells have spread within the salivary gland or to other parts of the body.
                    The process used to find out if cancer has spread within the salivary glands or to other parts of the body is called staging. The information gathered from the staging process determines the stage of the disease. It is important to know the stage in order to plan treatment. The following procedures may be used in the staging process:         -   MRI (magnetic resonance imaging): A procedure that uses a magnet, radio waves, and a computer to make a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This procedure is also called nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI).    -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.
                
                
                    There are three ways that cancer spreads in the body.
                    Cancer can spread through tissue, the lymph system, and the blood:         - Tissue. The cancer spreads from where it began by growing into nearby areas.     - Lymph system. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the lymph system. The cancer travels through the lymph vessels to other parts of the body.     - Blood. The cancer spreads from where it began by getting into the blood. The cancer travels through the blood vessels to other parts of the body.
                
                
                    Cancer may spread from where it began to other parts of the body.
                    When cancer spreads to another part of the body, it is called metastasis. Cancer cells break away from where they began (the primary tumor) and travel through the lymph system or blood.         - Lymph system. The cancer gets into the lymph system, travels through the lymph vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.    - Blood. The cancer gets into the blood, travels through the blood vessels, and forms a tumor (metastatic tumor) in another part of the body.        The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if salivary gland cancer spreads to the lung, the cancer cells in the lung are actually salivary gland cancer cells. The disease is metastatic salivary gland cancer, not lung cancer.
                
                
                    The following stages are used for major salivary gland cancers:
                    Stage I    In stage I, the tumor is in the salivary gland only and is 2 centimeters or smaller.        Stage II    In stage II, the tumor is in the salivary gland only and is larger than 2 centimeters but not larger than 4 centimeters.       Stage III    In stage III, one of the following is true:            - The tumor is not larger than 4 centimeters and has spread to a single lymph node on the same side as the tumor and the lymph node is 3 centimeters or smaller.     - The tumor is larger than 4 centimeters and/or has spread to soft tissue around the affected gland. Cancer may have spread to a single lymph node on the same side as the tumor and the lymph node is 3 centimeters or smaller.              Stage IV     Stage IV is divided into stages IVA, IVB, and IVC as follows:            -  Stage IVA:                  - The tumor may be any size and may have spread to soft tissue around the affected gland. Cancer has spread to a single lymph node on the same side as the tumor and the lymph node is larger than 3 centimeters but not larger than 6 centimeters, or has spread to more than one lymph node on either or both sides of the body and the lymph nodes are not larger than 6 centimeters; or       - Cancer has spread to the skin, jawbone, ear canal, and/or facial nerve, and may have spread to one or more lymph nodes on either or both sides of the body. The lymph nodes are not larger than 6 centimeters.                -  Stage IVB:                  - The tumor may be any size and may have spread to soft tissue around the affected gland. Cancer has spread to a lymph node larger than 6 centimeters; or       - Cancer has spread to the base of the skull and/or the carotid artery, and may have spread to one or more lymph nodes of any size on either or both sides of the body.                -  Stage IVC:                  - The tumor may be any size and may have spread to soft tissue around the affected gland, to the skin, jawbone, ear canal, facial nerve, base of the skull, or carotid artery, or to one or more lymph nodes on either or both sides of the body. Cancer has spread to distant parts of the body.                       Salivary gland cancers are also grouped by grade. The grade of a tumor tells how fast the cancer cells are growing, based on how the cells look under a microscope. Low-grade cancers grow more slowly than high-grade cancers.     Minor salivary gland cancers are staged according to where they were first found in the body."
1685,How many people are affected by Hirschsprung disease ?,"Hirschsprung disease occurs in approximately 1 in 5,000 newborns."
1686,What are the symptoms of Kidney Stones in Adults ?,"People with kidney stones may have pain while urinating, see blood in the urine, or feel a sharp pain in the back or lower abdomen. The pain may last for a short or long time. People may experience nausea and vomiting with the pain. However, people who have small stones that pass easily through the urinary tract may not have symptoms at all."
1687,What is (are) Spinal Muscular Atrophy ?,"Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) Types I, II, and III belong to a group of hereditary diseases that cause weakness and wasting of the voluntary muscles in the arms and legs of infants and children. The disorders are caused by an abnormal or missing gene known as the survival motor neuron gene 1 (SMN1), which is responsible for the production of a protein essential to motor neurons. Without this protein, lower motor neurons in the spinal cord degenerate and die. The type of SMA (I, II, or III) is determined by the age of onset and the severity of symptoms. Type I (also known as Werdnig-Hoffman disease, or infantile-onset SMA) is evident at birth or within the first few months. Symptoms include floppy limbs and trunk, feeble movements of the arms and legs, swallowing and feeding difficulties, and impaired breathing. Type II (the intermediate form) usually begins 6 and 18 months of age. Legs tend to be more impaired than arms. Children with Type II may able to sit and some may be able to stand or walk with help. Symptoms of Type III (also called Kugelberg-Welander disease) appear between 2 and 17 years of age and include difficulty running, climbing steps, or rising from a chair. The lower extremities are most often affected. Complications include scoliosis and chronic shortening of muscles or tendons around joints."
1688,What is (are) fibrochondrogenesis ?,"Fibrochondrogenesis is a very severe disorder of bone growth. Affected infants have a very narrow chest, which prevents the lungs from developing normally. Most infants with this condition are stillborn or die shortly after birth from respiratory failure. However, some affected individuals have lived into childhood.  Fibrochondrogenesis is characterized by short stature (dwarfism) and other skeletal abnormalities. Affected individuals have shortened long bones in the arms and legs that are unusually wide at the ends (described as dumbbell-shaped). People with this condition also have a narrow chest with short, wide ribs and a round and prominent abdomen. The bones of the spine (vertebrae) are flattened (platyspondyly) and have a characteristic pinched or pear shape that is noticeable on x-rays. Other skeletal abnormalities associated with fibrochondrogenesis include abnormal curvature of the spine and underdeveloped hip (pelvic) bones.  People with fibrochondrogenesis also have distinctive facial features. These include prominent eyes, low-set ears, a small mouth with a long upper lip, and a small chin (micrognathia). Affected individuals have a relatively flat-appearing midface, particularly a small nose with a flat nasal bridge and nostrils that open to the front rather than downward (anteverted nares). Vision problems, including severe nearsightedness (high myopia) and clouding of the lens of the eye (cataract), are common in those who survive infancy. Most affected individuals also have sensorineural hearing loss, which is caused by abnormalities of the inner ear."
1689,What are the treatments for episodic ataxia ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of episodic ataxia:  - Consortium for Clinical Investigations of Neurological Channelopathies (CINCH)  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Episodic Ataxia Type 1  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Episodic Ataxia Type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Episodic ataxia type 1  - Genetic Testing Registry: Episodic ataxia type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Episodic ataxia, type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Episodic ataxia, type 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Episodic ataxia, type 7  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Movement - uncoordinated  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Vertigo-associated disorders   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1690,What is (are) Pycnodysostosis ?,"Pycnodysostosis is a rare condition characterized by moderate short stature (1.35m to 1.5m), increased density of the bones (osteosclerosis/osteopetrosis), underdevelopment of the tips of the fingers with absent or small nails, an abnomal collarbone (clavicle), distinctive facial features including a large head with a small face and chin, underdeveloped facial bones, a high forehead and dental abnormalities. Pycnodysostosis is an autosomal recessive genetic condition.  The gene has been mapped to the same location as the gene for cathepsin K on chromosome 1q21.  The diagnosis of pycnodysostosis is based on physical features and X-ray findings.  Molecular genetic testing is available.  Management is symptomatic.  Individuals need orthopedic monitoring, treatment of fractures, appropriate dental care, and craniofacial surgery may be needed."
1691,Do you have information about HIV/AIDS Medicines,"Summary : In the early 1980s, when the HIV/AIDS epidemic began, patients rarely lived longer than a few years. But today, there are many effective medicines to fight the infection, and people with HIV have longer, healthier lives.    There are five major types of medicines:       - Reverse transcriptase (RT) inhibitors - interfere with a critical step during the HIV life cycle and keep the virus from making copies of itself    - Protease inhibitors - interfere with a protein that HIV uses to make infectious viral particles    - Fusion inhibitors - block the virus from entering the body's cells    - Integrase inhibitors - block an enzyme HIV needs to make copies of itself    - Multidrug combinations - combine two or more different types of drugs into one       These medicines help people with HIV, but they are not perfect. They do not cure HIV/AIDS. People with HIV infection still have the virus in their bodies. They can still spread HIV to others through unprotected sex and needle sharing, even when they are taking their medicines.    NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
1692,What are the treatments for Absence of the Septum Pellucidum ?,Absence of the SP alone is not a disorder but is instead a characteristic noted in children with septo-optic dysplasia or other developmental anomalies.
1693,What is (are) Citrullinemia type I ?,"Citrullinemia type I is an inherited disorder that causes ammonia and other toxic substances to accumulate in the blood. This condition, also known as classic citrullinemia, belongs to a class of genetic diseases called urea cycle disorders. In most cases, the condition becomes evident in the first few days of life. Affected infants typically appear normal at birth, but as ammonia builds up in the body they experience a progressive lack of energy (lethargy), poor feeding, vomiting, seizures, and loss of consciousness. Citrullinemia type I is caused by mutations in the ASS1 gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern."
1694,What are the treatments for infantile-onset spinocerebellar ataxia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of IOSCA:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Infantile-Onset Spinocerebellar Ataxia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome 7 (hepatocerebral type)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1695,Is adenine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1696,How to diagnose Lupus Nephritis ?,"Lupus nephritis is diagnosed through urine and blood tests and a kidney biopsy:
                
- Urinalysis. Urinalysis is testing of a urine sample. The urine sample is collected in a special container in a health care providers office or commercial facility and can be tested in the same location or sent to a lab for analysis. For the test, a nurse or technician places a strip of chemically treated paper, called a dipstick, into the urine. Patches on the dipstick change color when blood or protein is present. A high number of red blood cells or high levels of protein in the urine indicate kidney damage.  - Blood test. A blood test involves drawing blood at a health care providers office or commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. The blood test can show high levels of creatinine, a waste product of normal muscle breakdown excreted by the kidneys, which increases when the kidneys are not functioning well.   - Biopsy. A biopsy is a procedure that involves taking a small piece of kidney tissue for examination with a microscope. The biopsy is performed by a health care provider in a hospital with light sedation and local anesthetic. The health care provider uses imaging techniques such as ultrasound or a computerized tomography scan to guide the biopsy needle into the kidney. The kidney tissue is examined in a lab by a pathologista doctor who specializes in diagnosing diseases. The test can confirm a diagnosis of lupus nephritis, determine how far the disease has progressed, and guide treatment. The American College of Rheumatology recommends biopsies for all people with evidence of active lupus nephritis that has not been previously treated."
1697,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Aphasia ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders conduct and support a broad range of scientific investigations to increase our understanding of aphasia, find better treatments, and discover improved methods to restore lost function to people who have aphasia."
1698,What are the symptoms of 1q44 microdeletion syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of 1q44 microdeletion syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for 1q44 microdeletion syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Seizures 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Abnormality of the cardiac septa 50% Abnormality of the philtrum 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 50% Hypertelorism 50% Microcephaly 50% Short stature 50% Strabismus 50% Telecanthus 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Ventriculomegaly 50% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 7.5% Frontal bossing 7.5% High forehead 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Intestinal malrotation 7.5% Narrow forehead 7.5% Optic atrophy 7.5% Preauricular skin tag 7.5% Prominent metopic ridge 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Synophrys 7.5% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1699,What are the treatments for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Upshaw-Schulman syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Blood Clots  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hemolytic anemia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Purpura  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Thrombocytopenia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1700,What is (are) Gallstones ?,"People who think they have had a gallbladder attack should notify their health care provider. Although these attacks usually resolve as gallstones move, complications can develop if the bile ducts remain blocked.
                
People with any of the following symptoms during or after a gallbladder attack should see a health care provider immediately:
                
- abdominal pain lasting more than 5 hours   - nausea and vomiting   - fevereven a low-grade feveror chills  - yellowish color of the skin or whites of the eyes, called jaundice   - tea-colored urine and light-colored stools
                
These symptoms may be signs of serious infection or infl ammation of the gallbladder, liver, or pancreas."
1701,How many people are affected by cerebral cavernous malformation ?,Cerebral cavernous malformations affect about 0.5 percent of the population worldwide.
1702,What are the treatments for Miller syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Miller syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Miller syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1703,What is (are) familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia ?,"Familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia is a disorder characterized by episodes of abnormal movement that range from mild to severe. In the condition name, the word paroxysmal indicates that the abnormal movements come and go over time, kinesigenic means that episodes are triggered by movement, and dyskinesia refers to involuntary movement of the body.  People with familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia experience episodes of irregular jerking or shaking movements that are induced by sudden motion, such as standing up quickly or being startled. An episode may involve slow, prolonged muscle contractions (dystonia); small, fast, ""dance-like"" motions (chorea); writhing movements of the limbs (athetosis); or, rarely, flailing movements of the limbs (ballismus). Familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia may affect one or both sides of the body. The type of abnormal movement varies among affected individuals, even among members of the same family. In many people with familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia, a pattern of symptoms called an aura immediately precedes the episode. The aura is often described as a crawling or tingling sensation in the affected body part. Individuals with this condition do not lose consciousness during an episode and do not experience any symptoms between episodes.  Individuals with familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia usually begin to show signs and symptoms of the disorder during childhood or adolescence. Episodes typically last less than five minutes, and the frequency of episodes ranges from one per month to 100 per day. In most affected individuals, episodes occur less often with age.  In some people with familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia the disorder begins in infancy with recurring seizures called benign infantile convulsions. These seizures usually develop in the first year of life and stop by age 3. When benign infantile convulsions are associated with familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia, the condition is known as infantile convulsions and choreoathetosis (ICCA). In families with ICCA, some individuals develop only benign infantile convulsions, some have only familial paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia, and others develop both."
1704,How to diagnose Basilar migraine ?,"How is a basilar migraine diagnosed? A diagnosis of basilar migraine is made based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Although there are no tests available to confirm the diagnosis, additional testing may be ordered to rule out other conditions that can cause similar features. These tests may include: Brain MRI MR angiogram (MRA) Electroencephalogram 24-hour heart monitor Specialized blood tests"
1705,What is (are) Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency ?,"Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency is an inherited condition that affects the brain and muscles. Affected people may begin showing symptoms of the condition from early infancy to age three. Signs and symptoms can vary but may include mild to severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, speech development limited to a few words, behavioral problems (i.e. hyperactivity, autistic behaviors, self-mutilation), and involuntary movements. Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase deficiency is caused by changes (mutations) in the GAMT gene and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment aims to increase the levels of creatine in the brain through supplementation with high doses of oral creatine monohydrate."
1706,How to diagnose Hashimoto's Disease ?,"Diagnosis begins with a physical exam and medical history. A goiter, nodules, or growths may be found during a physical exam, and symptoms may suggest hypothyroidism. Health care providers will then perform blood tests to confirm the diagnosis. A blood test involves drawing blood at a health care providers office or a commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. Diagnostic blood tests may include the
                
- TSH test. The ultrasensitive TSH test is usually the first test performed. This test detects even tiny amounts of TSH in the blood and is the most accurate measure of thyroid activity available. Generally, a TSH reading above normal means a person has hypothyroidism.  - T4 test. The T4 test measures the actual amount of thyroid hormone circulating in the blood. In hypothyroidism, the level of T4 in the blood is lower than normal.  - antithyroid antibody test. This test looks for the presence of thyroid autoantibodies, or molecules produced by a persons body that mistakenly attack the bodys own tissues. Two principal types of antithyroid antibodies are      - anti-TG antibodies, which attack a protein in the thyroid called thyroglobulin    - anti-thyroperoxidase (TPO) antibodies, which attack an enzyme called thyroperoxidase in thyroid cells that helps convert T4 to T3. Having TPO autoantibodies in the blood means the bodys immune system attacked the thyroid tissue in the past. Most people with Hashimotos disease have these antibodies, although people whose hypothyroidism is caused by other conditions do not.
                
A health care provider may also order imaging tests, including an ultrasound or a computerized tomography (CT) scan.
                
- Ultrasound. Ultrasound uses a device, called a transducer, that bounces safe, painless sound waves off organs to create an image of their structure. A specially trained technician performs the procedure in a health care providers office, an outpatient center, or a hospital, and a radiologista doctor who specializes in medical imaginginterprets the images; a patient does not need anesthesia.
                
- The images can show the size and texture of the thyroid, as well as a pattern of typical autoimmune inflammation, helping the health care provider confirm Hashimotos disease. The images can also show nodules or growths within the gland that suggest a malignant tumor.
                
- CT scan. CT scans use a combination of x rays and computer technology to create images. For a CT scan, a health care provider may give the patient a solution to drink and an injection of a special dye, called contrast medium. CT scans require the patient to lie on a table that slides into a tunnel-shaped device where the x rays are taken. An x-ray technician performs the procedure in an outpatient center or a hospital, and a radiologist interprets the images. The patient does not need anesthesia. In some cases of Hashimotos disease, a CT scan is used to examine the placement and extent of a large goiter, and to show a goiters effect on nearby structures.
                
More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Thyroid Tests."
1707,How many people are affected by Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome ?,"Buschke-Ollendorff syndrome has an estimated incidence of 1 in 20,000 people worldwide."
1708,What causes Rheumatoid Arthritis ?,"Actual Cause Is Unknown Scientists believe that rheumatoid arthritis may result from the interaction of many factors such as genetics, hormones, and the environment. Although rheumatoid arthritis sometimes runs in families, the actual cause of rheumatoid arthritis is still unknown. Research suggests that a person's genetic makeup is an important part of the picture, but not the whole story. Some evidence shows that infectious agents, such as viruses and bacteria, may trigger rheumatoid arthritis in people with an inherited tendency to develop the disease. However, a specific agent or agents are not yet known. Not Contagious It is important to note that rheumatoid arthritis is not contagious. A person cannot catch it from someone else.  Learn more about the causes of rheumatoid arthritis."
1709,What to do for What I need to know about Diarrhea ?,"- Diarrhea is frequent, loose, and watery bowel movements.  - Acute diarrhea is a common problem. It usually lasts only 1 or 2 days, but it may last longer.  - Being dehydrated means your body does not have enough fluid to work properly. Dehydration can be serious, especially for children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems.  - Diarrhea is treated by replacing lost fluids, salts, and minerals.  - See your health care provider if you have signs of dehydration, diarrhea for more than 2 days, severe pain in your abdomen or rectum, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, stools containing blood or pus, or stools that are black and tarry.  - Take your child to a health care provider right away if your child has signs of dehydration, diarrhea for more than 24 hours, a fever of 102 degrees or higher, stools containing blood or pus, or stools that are black and tarry.  - Two types of diarrhea can be prevented rotavirus diarrhea and travelers diarrhea."
1710,What are the symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome 11 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome 11? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Bardet-Biedl syndrome 11. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the kidney 95% Abnormal electroretinogram 90% Abnormality of retinal pigmentation 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 90% Obesity 90% Postaxial hand polydactyly 90% Micropenis 88% Myopia 75% Astigmatism 63% Hypertension 50% Hypoplasia of penis 50% Nystagmus 50% Polycystic ovaries 50% Short stature 50% Cataract 30% Glaucoma 22% Rod-cone dystrophy 8% Abnormality of the ovary 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Hearing impairment 7.5% Hepatic failure 7.5% Hypertrichosis 7.5% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 7.5% Macrocephaly 7.5% Medial flaring of the eyebrow 7.5% Nephrotic syndrome 7.5% Neurological speech impairment 7.5% Prominent nasal bridge 7.5% Short neck 7.5% Vaginal atresia 7.5% Aganglionic megacolon 5% Asthma - Ataxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Biliary tract abnormality - Brachydactyly syndrome - Broad foot - Congenital primary aphakia - Decreased testicular size - Delayed speech and language development - Dental crowding - Diabetes mellitus - Foot polydactyly - Gait imbalance - Hepatic fibrosis - High palate - Hirsutism - Hypodontia - Hypogonadism - Intellectual disability - Left ventricular hypertrophy - Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus - Poor coordination - Radial deviation of finger - Retinal degeneration - Short foot - Specific learning disability - Strabismus - Syndactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1711,How many people are affected by Fuchs endothelial dystrophy ?,"The late-onset form of Fuchs endothelial dystrophy is a common condition, affecting approximately 4 percent of people over the age of 40. The early-onset variant of Fuchs endothelial dystrophy is rare, although the exact prevalence is unknown.  For reasons that are unclear, women are affected with Fuchs endothelial dystrophy somewhat more frequently than men."
1712,What is (are) Lung Diseases ?,"When you breathe, your lungs take in oxygen from the air and deliver it to the bloodstream. The cells in your body need oxygen to work and grow. During a normal day, you breathe nearly 25,000 times. People with lung disease have difficulty breathing. Millions of people in the U.S. have lung disease. If all types of lung disease are lumped together, it is the number three killer in the United States.    The term lung disease refers to many disorders affecting the lungs, such as asthma, COPD, infections like influenza, pneumonia and tuberculosis, lung cancer, and many other breathing problems. Some lung diseases can lead to respiratory failure.    Dept. of Health and Human Services Office on Women's Health"
1713,What are the symptoms of Fukuyama type muscular dystrophy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Fukuyama type muscular dystrophy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Fukuyama type muscular dystrophy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Exaggerated startle response 5% Holoprosencephaly 5% Retinal dysplasia 5% Agenesis of corpus callosum - Areflexia - Atria septal defect - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Calf muscle hypertrophy - Cataract - Cerebellar cyst - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Congenital muscular dystrophy - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Encephalocele - Flexion contracture - Hydrocephalus - Hypermetropia - Hypoplasia of the brainstem - Hypoplasia of the pyramidal tract - Infantile onset - Intellectual disability - Microphthalmia - Muscle weakness - Muscular hypotonia - Myocardial fibrosis - Myopia - Optic atrophy - Pachygyria - Polymicrogyria - Pulmonic stenosis - Respiratory insufficiency - Retinal detachment - Scoliosis - Seizures - Skeletal muscle atrophy - Spinal rigidity - Strabismus - Transposition of the great arteries - Type II lissencephaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1714,What are the treatments for ataxia-telangiectasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of ataxia-telangiectasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Ataxia-Telangiectasia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Ataxia-telangiectasia syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Ataxia-Telangiectasia   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1715,"What is (are) Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?","Key Points
                    - Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissue covering the ovary or lining the fallopian tube or peritoneum.     - Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer form in the same type of tissue and are treated the same way.    - Women who have a family history of ovarian cancer are at an increased risk of ovarian cancer.    - Some ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers are caused by inherited gene mutations (changes).    - Women with an increased risk of ovarian cancer may consider surgery to lessen the risk.    - Signs and symptoms of ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer include pain or swelling in the abdomen.    - Tests that examine the ovaries and pelvic area are used to detect (find) and diagnose ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer.    - Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissue covering the ovary or lining the fallopian tube or peritoneum.
                    The ovaries are a pair of organs in the female reproductive system. They are in the pelvis, one on each side of the uterus (the hollow, pear-shaped organ where a fetus grows). Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. The ovaries make eggs and female hormones (chemicals that control the way certain cells or organs work).    The fallopian tubes are a pair of long, slender tubes, one on each side of the uterus. Eggs pass from the ovaries, through the fallopian tubes, to the uterus. Cancer sometimes begins at the end of the fallopian tube near the ovary and spreads to the ovary.   The peritoneum is the tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers organs in the abdomen. Primary peritoneal cancer is cancer that forms in the peritoneum and has not spread there from another part of the body. Cancer sometimes begins in the peritoneum and spreads to the ovary.       Ovarian epithelial cancer is one type of cancer that affects the ovary. See the following PDQ treatment summaries for information about other types of ovarian tumors:         -  Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors     -  Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors     -  Unusual Cancers of Childhood Treatment (ovarian cancer in children)
                
                
                    Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer form in the same type of tissue and are treated the same way."
1716,"What causes Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis ?","What causes periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, cervical adenitis (PFAPA)? The cause of PFAPA is unknown, although viral or autoimmune causes have been suggested."
1717,What are the symptoms of Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy plus syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Atria septal defect 5% Cardiomegaly 5% Mitral valve prolapse 5% Retroperitoneal fibrosis 5% Ventricular septal defect 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Camptodactyly - Clinodactyly - Diabetes mellitus - Elbow flexion contracture - Episcleritis - Fever - Growth hormone deficiency - Hallux valgus - Hepatomegaly - Histiocytosis - Hypergonadotropic hypogonadism - Lymphadenopathy - Phenotypic variability - Proptosis - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Short stature - Splenomegaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1718,How many people are affected by prothrombin thrombophilia ?,"Prothrombin thrombophilia is the second most common inherited form of thrombophilia after factor V Leiden thrombophilia. Approximately 1 in 50 people in the white population in the United States and Europe has prothrombin thrombophilia. This condition is less common in other ethnic groups, occurring in less than one percent of African American, Native American, or Asian populations."
1719,"What is (are) Craniometaphyseal dysplasia, autosomal dominant ?","Autosomal dominant craniometaphyseal dysplasia is a genetic skeletal condition characterized by progressive thickening of bones in the skull (cranium) and abnormalities at the ends of long bones in the limbs (metaphyseal dysplasia). The overgrowth of bones in the head can lead to distinctive facial features and delayed tooth eruption, as well as compression of the cranial nerves. If untreated, compression of the cranial nerves can be disabling. The condition is caused by mutations in the ANKH gene. As the name suggests, it is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Treatment may include surgery to reduce compression of cranial nerves and recontouring of the facial bones."
1720,What is (are) Alzheimer's Disease ?,"Memory problems are typically one of the first signs of Alzheimers disease, though different people may have different initial symptoms. A decline in other aspects of thinking, such as finding the right words, vision/spatial issues, and impaired reasoning or judgment, may also signal the very early stages of Alzheimers disease."
1721,What are the treatments for tyrosine hydroxylase deficiency ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of TH deficiency:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Tyrosine Hydroxylase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Segawa syndrome, autosomal recessive   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1722,Is cytogenetically normal acute myeloid leukemia inherited ?,"CN-AML is not usually inherited but arises from genetic changes in the body's cells that occur after conception. Rarely, an inherited mutation in the CEBPA gene causes acute myeloid leukemia. In these cases, the condition follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, which means that one copy of the altered CEBPA gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. These cases of CN-AML are referred to as familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA."
1723,What are the treatments for Dandy-Walker Syndrome ?,"Treatment for individuals with Dandy-Walker Syndrome generally consists of treating the associated problems, if needed. A surgical procedure called a shunt may be required to drain off excess fluid within the brain, which will reduce pressure inside the skull and improve symptoms. Treatment may also include various forms of therapy (physicial, occupational) and specialized education."
1724,How to diagnose Gallbladder Cancer ?,"Tests that examine the gallbladder and nearby organs are used to detect (find), diagnose, and stage gallbladder cancer. Procedures that make pictures of the gallbladder and the area around it help diagnose gallbladder cancer and show how far the cancer has spread. The process used to find out if cancer cells have spread within and around the gallbladder is called staging.    In order to plan treatment, it is important to know if the gallbladder cancer can be removed by surgery. Tests and procedures to detect, diagnose, and stage gallbladder cancer are usually done at the same time. The following tests and procedures may be used:         -   Physical exam and history : An exam of the body to check general signs of health, including checking for signs of disease, such as lumps or anything else that seems unusual. A history of the patients health habits and past illnesses and treatments will also be taken.    -   Liver function tests : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by the liver. A higher than normal amount of a substance can be a sign of liver disease that may be caused by gallbladder cancer.    -   Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) assay : A test that measures the level of CEA in the blood. CEA is released into the bloodstream from both cancer cells and normal cells. When found in higher than normal amounts, it can be a sign of gallbladder cancer or other conditions.    -   CA 19-9 assay : A test that measures the level of CA 19-9 in the blood. CA 19-9 is released into the bloodstream from both cancer cells and normal cells. When found in higher than normal amounts, it can be a sign of gallbladder cancer or other conditions.    -   Blood chemistry studies : A procedure in which a blood sample is checked to measure the amounts of certain substances released into the blood by organs and tissues in the body. An unusual (higher or lower than normal) amount of a substance can be a sign of disease.     -   CT scan (CAT scan): A procedure that makes a series of detailed pictures of areas inside the body, such as the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, taken from different angles. The pictures are made by a computer linked to an x-ray machine. A dye may be injected into a vein or swallowed to help the organs or tissues show up more clearly. This procedure is also called computed tomography, computerized tomography, or computerized axial tomography.     -   Ultrasound exam: A procedure in which high-energy sound waves (ultrasound) are bounced off internal tissues or organs and make echoes. The echoes form a picture of body tissues called a sonogram. An abdominal ultrasound is done to diagnose gallbladder cancer.    -   PTC (percutaneous transhepatic cholangiography): A procedure used to x-ray the liver and bile ducts. A thin needle is inserted through the skin below the ribs and into the liver. Dye is injected into the liver or bile ducts and an x-ray is taken. If a blockage is found, a thin, flexible tube called a stent is sometimes left in the liver to drain bile into the small intestine or a collection bag outside the body.    -   Chest x-ray : An x-ray of the organs and bones inside the chest. An x-ray is a type of energy beam that can go through the body and onto film, making a picture of areas inside the body.    -   ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography): A procedure used to x-ray the ducts (tubes) that carry bile from the liver to the gallbladder and from the gallbladder to the small intestine. Sometimes gallbladder cancer causes these ducts to narrow and block or slow the flow of bile, causing jaundice. An endoscope (a thin, lighted tube) is passed through the mouth, esophagus, and stomach into the first part of the small intestine. A catheter (a smaller tube) is then inserted through the endoscope into the bile ducts. A dye is injected through the catheter into the ducts and an x-ray is taken. If the ducts are blocked by a tumor, a fine tube may be inserted into the duct to unblock it. This tube (or stent) may be left in place to keep the duct open. Tissue samples may also be taken.     -   Laparoscopy : A surgical procedure to look at the organs inside the abdomen to check for signs of disease. Small incisions (cuts) are made in the wall of the abdomen and a laparoscope (a thin, lighted tube) is inserted into one of the incisions. Other instruments may be inserted through the same or other incisions to perform procedures such as removing organs or taking tissue samples for biopsy. The laparoscopy helps to find out if the cancer is within the gallbladder only or has spread to nearby tissues and if it can be removed by surgery.    -   Biopsy : The removal of cells or tissues so they can be viewed under a microscope by a pathologist to check for signs of cancer. The biopsy may be done after surgery to remove the tumor. If the tumor clearly cannot be removed by surgery, the biopsy may be done using a fine needle to remove cells from the tumor."
1725,What is (are) Uterine Cancer ?,"The uterus, or womb, is an important female reproductive organ. It is the place where a baby grows when a women is pregnant. There are different types of uterine cancer. The most common type starts in the endometrium, the lining of the uterus. This type of cancer is sometimes called endometrial cancer.     The symptoms of uterine cancer include       - Unusual vaginal bleeding or discharge    - Trouble urinating    - Pelvic pain    - Pain during intercourse       Uterine cancer usually occurs after menopause. Being obese and taking estrogen-alone hormone replacement therapy (also called menopausal hormone therapy) also increase your risk. Treatment varies depending on your overall health, how advanced the cancer is and whether hormones affect its growth. Treatment is usually a hysterectomy, which is surgery to remove the uterus. The ovaries and fallopian tubes are also removed. Other options include hormone therapy and radiation.     NIH: National Cancer Institute"
1726,What are the symptoms of C syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of C syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for C syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anteverted nares 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Cryptorchidism 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Epicanthus 90% Female pseudohermaphroditism 90% Gingival overgrowth 90% Hypoplasia of the ear cartilage 90% Long philtrum 90% Low-set, posteriorly rotated ears 90% Microcephaly 90% Narrow forehead 90% Short neck 90% Short nose 90% Trigonocephaly 90% Upslanted palpebral fissure 90% Abnormality of immune system physiology 50% Cutis laxa 50% Joint dislocation 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Micromelia 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Pectus excavatum 50% Sacral dimple 50% Seizures 50% Short stature 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Strabismus 50% Talipes 50% Thin vermilion border 50% Urogenital fistula 50% Abnormal localization of kidney 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the abdominal wall musculature 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Congenital diaphragmatic hernia 7.5% Constipation 7.5% Hand polydactyly 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Omphalocele 7.5% Polyhydramnios 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Toe syndactyly 7.5% Accessory oral frenulum - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Clinodactyly - Clitoromegaly - Delayed skeletal maturation - Dislocated radial head - Failure to thrive - Fused sternal ossification centers - Hepatomegaly - High palate - Hip dislocation - Low-set ears - Patent ductus arteriosus - Postaxial foot polydactyly - Postaxial hand polydactyly - Posteriorly rotated ears - Radial deviation of finger - Renal cortical cysts - Scoliosis - Short metacarpal - Thick anterior alveolar ridges - Ulnar deviation of finger - Ventricular septal defect - Wide mouth - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1727,What are the treatments for Gas in the Digestive Tract ?,"Gas can be treated by reducing swallowed air, making dietary changes, or taking over-the-counter or prescription medications. People who think they have too much gas can try to treat gas on their own before seeing a health care provider. Health care providers can provide advice about reducing gas and prescribe medications that may help.
                
Reducing swallowed air. Swallowing less air may help reduce gas, especially for people who burp frequently. A health care provider may suggest eating more slowly, avoiding gum and hard candies, or checking with a dentist to make sure dentures fit correctly.
                
Making dietary changes. People may be able to reduce gas by eating less of the foods that cause gas. However, many healthy foods may cause gas, such as fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and milk products. The amount of gas caused by certain foods varies from person to person. Effective dietary changes depend on learning through trial and error which foods cause a person to have gas and how much of the offending foods one can handle.
                
While fat does not cause gas, limiting high-fat foods can help reduce bloating and discomfort. Less fat in the diet helps the stomach empty faster, allowing gases to move more quickly into the small intestine.
                
Taking over-the-counter medications. Some over-the-counter medications can help reduce gas or the symptoms associated with gas:
                
- Alpha-galactosidase (Beano), an over-the-counter digestive aid, contains the sugar-digesting enzyme that the body lacks to digest the sugar in beans and many vegetables. The enzyme comes in liquid and tablet form. Five drops are added per serving or one tablet is swallowed just before eating to break down the gas-producing sugars. Beano has no effect on gas caused by lactose or fiber.  - Simethicone (Gas-X, Mylanta Gas) can relieve bloating and abdominal pain or discomfort caused by gas.  - Lactase tablets or drops can help people with lactose intolerance digest milk and milk products to reduce gas. Lactase tablets are taken just before eating foods that contain lactose; lactase drops can be added to liquid milk products. Lactose-free and lactose-reduced milk and milk products are available at most grocery stores.
                
Taking prescription medications. Health care providers may prescribe medications to help reduce symptoms, especially for people with small intestinal bacterial overgrowth or IBS. More information about IBS is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Irritable Bowel Syndrome fact sheet."
1728,What causes Causes of Diabetes ?,"Type 1 diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin due to the destruction of insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreas. In type 1 diabetesan autoimmune diseasethe bodys immune system attacks and destroys the beta cells. Normally, the immune system protects the body from infection by identifying and destroying bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful foreign substances. But in autoimmune diseases, the immune system attacks the bodys own cells. In type 1 diabetes, beta cell destruction may take place over several years, but symptoms of the disease usually develop over a short period of time.
                
Type 1 diabetes typically occurs in children and young adults, though it can appear at any age. In the past, type 1 diabetes was called juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
                
Latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) may be a slowly developing kind of type 1 diabetes. Diagnosis usually occurs after age 30. In LADA, as in type 1 diabetes, the bodys immune system destroys the beta cells. At the time of diagnosis, people with LADA may still produce their own insulin, but eventually most will need insulin shots or an insulin pump to control blood glucose levels.
                
Genetic Susceptibility
                
Heredity plays an important part in determining who is likely to develop type 1 diabetes. Genes are passed down from biological parent to child. Genes carry instructions for making proteins that are needed for the bodys cells to function. Many genes, as well as interactions among genes, are thought to influence susceptibility to and protection from type 1 diabetes. The key genes may vary in different population groups. Variations in genes that affect more than 1 percent of a population group are called gene variants.
                
Certain gene variants that carry instructions for making proteins called human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on white blood cells are linked to the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. The proteins produced by HLA genes help determine whether the immune system recognizes a cell as part of the body or as foreign material. Some combinations of HLA gene variants predict that a person will be at higher risk for type 1 diabetes, while other combinations are protective or have no effect on risk.
                
While HLA genes are the major risk genes for type 1 diabetes, many additional risk genes or gene regions have been found. Not only can these genes help identify people at risk for type 1 diabetes, but they also provide important clues to help scientists better understand how the disease develops and identify potential targets for therapy and prevention.
                
Genetic testing can show what types of HLA genes a person carries and can reveal other genes linked to diabetes. However, most genetic testing is done in a research setting and is not yet available to individuals. Scientists are studying how the results of genetic testing can be used to improve type 1 diabetes prevention or treatment.
                
Autoimmune Destruction of Beta Cells
                
In type 1 diabetes, white blood cells called T cells attack and destroy beta cells. The process begins well before diabetes symptoms appear and continues after diagnosis. Often, type 1 diabetes is not diagnosed until most beta cells have already been destroyed. At this point, a person needs daily insulin treatment to survive. Finding ways to modify or stop this autoimmune process and preserve beta cell function is a major focus of current scientific research.
                
Recent research suggests insulin itself may be a key trigger of the immune attack on beta cells. The immune systems of people who are susceptible to developing type 1 diabetes respond to insulin as if it were a foreign substance, or antigen. To combat antigens, the body makes proteins called antibodies. Antibodies to insulin and other proteins produced by beta cells are found in people with type 1 diabetes. Researchers test for these antibodies to help identify people at increased risk of developing the disease. Testing the types and levels of antibodies in the blood can help determine whether a person has type 1 diabetes, LADA, or another type of diabetes.
                
Environmental Factors
                
Environmental factors, such as foods, viruses, and toxins, may play a role in the development of type 1 diabetes, but the exact nature of their role has not been determined. Some theories suggest that environmental factors trigger the autoimmune destruction of beta cells in people with a genetic susceptibility to diabetes. Other theories suggest that environmental factors play an ongoing role in diabetes, even after diagnosis.
                
Viruses and infections. A virus cannot cause diabetes on its own, but people are sometimes diagnosed with type 1 diabetes during or after a viral infection, suggesting a link between the two. Also, the onset of type 1 diabetes occurs more frequently during the winter when viral infections are more common. Viruses possibly associated with type 1 diabetes include coxsackievirus B, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, rubella, and mumps. Scientists have described several ways these viruses may damage or destroy beta cells or possibly trigger an autoimmune response in susceptible people. For example, anti-islet antibodies have been found in patients with congenital rubella syndrome, and cytomegalovirus has been associated with significant beta cell damage and acute pancreatitisinflammation of the pancreas. Scientists are trying to identify a virus that can cause type 1 diabetes so that a vaccine might be developed to prevent the disease.
                
Infant feeding practices. Some studies have suggested that dietary factors may raise or lower the risk of developing type 1 diabetes. For example, breastfed infants and infants receiving vitamin D supplements may have a reduced risk of developing type 1 diabetes, while early exposure to cows milk and cereal proteins may increase risk. More research is needed to clarify how infant nutrition affects the risk for type 1 diabetes.
                
Read more in the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDCs) publication  National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2014 at  www.cdc.gov for information about research studies related to type 1 diabetes."
1729,What are the genetic changes related to juvenile idiopathic arthritis ?,"Juvenile idiopathic arthritis is thought to arise from a combination of genetic and environmental factors. The term ""idiopathic"" indicates that the specific cause of the disorder is unknown. Its signs and symptoms result from excessive inflammation in and around the joints. Inflammation occurs when the immune system sends signaling molecules and white blood cells to a site of injury or disease to fight microbial invaders and facilitate tissue repair. Normally, the body stops the inflammatory response after healing is complete to prevent damage to its own cells and tissues. In people with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, the inflammatory response is prolonged, particularly during movement of the joints. The reasons for this excessive inflammatory response are unclear.  Researchers have identified changes in several genes that may influence the risk of developing juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Many of these genes belong to a family of genes that provide instructions for making a group of related proteins called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). Each HLA gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. Certain normal variations of several HLA genes seem to affect the risk of developing juvenile idiopathic arthritis, and the specific type of the condition that a person may have.  Normal variations in several other genes have also been associated with juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Many of these genes are thought to play roles in immune system function. Additional unknown genetic influences and environmental factors, such as infection and other issues that affect immune health, are also likely to influence a person's chances of developing this complex disorder."
1730,How to diagnose Cohen syndrome ?,"How is Cohen syndrome diagnosed? The diagnosis of Cohen syndrome is based on the symptoms present in the patient, but because the symptoms vary greatly from person to person, no consensus diagnostic criteria exist. Genetic testing is available for COH1, the only gene known to be associated with Cohen syndrome. However, the rate at which mutations are detected via genetic testing varies by ethnicity. For example, the mutation detection rate in COH1 is higher among the Finnish and Old Amish compared to individuals of from other populations."
1731,What is (are) Hennekam syndrome ?,"Hennekam syndrome is a rare condition that affects the lymphatic system. Signs and symptoms of the condition are generally noticeable at birth and vary significantly from person to person, even within the same family. Affected people generally experience lymphangiectasia (lymphatic vessels that are abnormally expanded), lymphedema, and distinctive facial features (i.e. a flattened appearance to the middle of the face, puffy eyelids, widely spaced eyes, small ears, and a small mouth). Other common features include intellectual disability, growth delay, respiratory problems, camptodactyly (permanently bent fingers and toes) and cutaneous syndactyly (fusion of the skin between the fingers and toes). Hennekam syndrome is caused by changes (mutations) in the CCBE1 or FAT4 genes and is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1732,What is (are) Langer mesomelic dysplasia ?,"Langer mesomelic dysplasia is a disorder of bone growth. Affected individuals typically have extreme shortening of the long bones in the arms and legs (mesomelia). As a result of the shortened leg bones, people with Langer mesomelic dysplasia have very short stature. A bone in the forearm called the ulna and a bone in the lower leg called the fibula are often underdeveloped or absent, while other bones in the forearm (the radius) and lower leg (the tibia) are unusually short, thick, and curved. Some people with Langer mesomelic dysplasia also have an abnormality of the wrist and forearm bones called Madelung deformity, which may cause pain and limit wrist movement. Additionally, some affected individuals have mild underdevelopment of the lower jaw bone (mandible)."
1733,What are the genetic changes related to McCune-Albright syndrome ?,"McCune-Albright syndrome is caused by a mutation in the GNAS gene. The GNAS gene provides instructions for making one part of a protein complex called a guanine nucleotide-binding protein, or a G protein.  In a process called signal transduction, G proteins trigger a complex network of signaling pathways that ultimately influence many cell functions by regulating the activity of hormones. The protein produced from the GNAS gene helps stimulate the activity of an enzyme called adenylate cyclase. GNAS gene mutations that cause McCune-Albright syndrome result in a G protein that causes the adenylate cyclase enzyme to be constantly turned on (constitutively activated). Constitutive activation of the adenylate cyclase enzyme leads to over-production of several hormones, resulting in the signs and symptoms of McCune-Albright syndrome."
1734,What is (are) Glomerular Diseases ?,"Renal failure is any acute or chronic loss of kidney function and is the term used when some kidney function remains. Total kidney failure, sometimes called end-stage renal disease (ESRD), indicates permanent loss of kidney function. Depending on the form of glomerular disease, renal function may be lost in a matter of days or weeks or may deteriorate slowly and gradually over the course of decades.
                
Acute Renal Failure
                
A few forms of glomerular disease cause very rapid deterioration of kidney function. For example, PSGN can cause severe symptoms (hematuria, proteinuria, edema) within 2 to 3 weeks after a sore throat or skin infection develops. The patient may temporarily require dialysis to replace renal function. This rapid loss of kidney function is called acute renal failure (ARF). Although ARF can be life-threatening while it lasts, kidney function usually returns after the cause of the kidney failure has been treated. In many patients, ARF is not associated with any permanent damage. However, some patients may recover from ARF and subsequently develop CKD.
                
Chronic Kidney Disease
                
Most forms of glomerular disease develop gradually, often causing no symptoms for many years. CKD is the slow, gradual loss of kidney function. Some forms of CKD can be controlled or slowed down. For example, diabetic nephropathy can be delayed by tightly controlling blood glucose levels and using ACE inhibitors and ARBs to reduce proteinuria and control blood pressure. But CKD cannot be cured. Partial loss of renal function means that some portion of the patient's nephrons have been scarred, and scarred nephrons cannot be repaired. In many cases, CKD leads to total kidney failure.
                
Total Kidney Failure
                
To stay alive, a patient with total kidney failure must go on dialysishemodialysis or peritoneal dialysisor receive a new kidney through transplantation. Patients with CKD who are approaching total kidney failure should learn as much about their treatment options as possible so they can make an informed decision when the time comes. With the help of dialysis or transplantation, many people continue to lead full, productive lives after reaching total kidney failure."
1735,Is IRAK-4 deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1736,How to prevent Parasites - Cyclosporiasis (Cyclospora Infection) ?,"On the basis of the currently available information, avoiding food or water that may have been contaminated with feces is the best way to prevent cyclosporiasis. Treatment with chlorine or iodine is unlikely to kill Cyclospora oocysts. No vaccine for cyclosporiasis is available.
    
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN) publishes detailed food safety recommendations for growers and suppliers. In its Guide to Minimize Microbial Food Safety Hazards for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables, CFSAN describes good agricultural practices (GAPs) and good manufacturing practices (GMPs) for fresh fruits and vegetables. The guidelines address the growing, harvesting, sorting, packaging, and storage processes; following the guidelines can help reduce the overall risk for microbial contamination during these processes. The precise ways that food and water become contaminated with Cyclospora oocysts are not fully understood.
    
CDC monitors the occurrence of cyclosporiasis in the United States and helps state health departments identify and investigate cyclosporiasis outbreaks to prevent additional cases of illness.
    
More on: Surveillance and Outbreak Response"
1737,What are the treatments for hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of hyperferritinemia-cataract syndrome:  - Boston Children's Hospital: Cataracts in Children  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hyperferritinemia cataract syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Cataract Removal   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1738,What is (are) High Blood Pressure ?,"Espaol
                
High blood pressure is a common disease in which blood flows through blood vessels (arteries) at higher than normal pressures.
                
Measuring Blood Pressure
                
Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood. High blood pressure, sometimes called hypertension, happens when this force is too high. Health care workers check blood pressure readings the same way for children, teens, and adults. They use a gauge, stethoscope or electronic sensor, and a blood pressure cuff. With this equipment, they measure:
                
Systolic Pressure: blood pressure when the heart beats while pumping blood
                
Diastolic Pressure: blood pressure when the heart is at rest between beats
                
Health care workers write blood pressure numbers with the systolic number above the diastolic number. For example:
                

                
118/76 mmHg People read ""118 over 76"" millimeters of mercury.
                
Normal Blood Pressure
                
Normal blood pressure for adults is defined as a systolic pressure below 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure below 80 mmHg. It is normal for blood pressures to change when you sleep, wake up, or are excited or nervous. When you are active, it is normal for your blood pressure to increase. However, once the activity stops, your blood pressure returns to your normal baseline range.
                
Blood pressure normally rises with age and body size. Newborn babies often have very low blood pressure numbers that are considered normal for babies, while older teens have numbers similar to adults.
                
Abnormal Blood Pressure
                
Abnormal increases in blood pressure are defined as having blood pressures higher than 120/80 mmHg. The following table outlines and defines high blood pressure severity levels.
                
Stages of High Blood Pressure in Adults
                
The ranges in the table are blood pressure guides for adults who do not have any short-term serious illnesses. People with diabetes or chronic kidney disease should keep their blood pressure below 130/80 mmHg.
                
Although blood pressure increases seen in prehypertension are less than those used to diagnose high blood pressure, prehypertension can progress to high blood pressure and should be taken seriously. Over time, consistently high blood pressure weakens and damages your blood vessels, which can lead to complications.
                
Types of High Blood Pressure
                
There are two main types of high blood pressure: primary and secondary high blood pressure.
                
Primary High Blood Pressure
                
Primary, or essential, high blood pressure is the most common type of high blood pressure. This type of high blood pressure tends to develop over years as a person ages.
                
Secondary High Blood Pressure
                
Secondary high blood pressure is caused by another medical condition or use of certain medicines. This type usually resolves after the cause is treated or removed."
1739,What are the genetic changes related to narcolepsy ?,"Narcolepsy probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors, some of which have been identified, but many of which remain unknown.  In most cases of narcolepsy with cataplexy, and in some cases without cataplexy, sleep abnormalities result from a loss of particular brain cells (neurons) in a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. These cells normally produce chemicals called hypocretins (also known as orexins), which have many important functions in the body. In particular, hypocretins regulate the daily sleep-wake cycle. It is unclear what triggers the death of hypocretin-producing neurons in people with narcolepsy, although evidence increasingly points to an abnormality of the immune system.  Researchers have identified changes in several genes that influence the risk of developing narcolepsy. The most well-studied of these genes is HLA-DQB1, which provides instructions for making part of a protein that plays an important role in the immune system. The HLA-DQB1 gene is part of a family of genes called the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. The HLA complex helps the immune system distinguish the body's own proteins from proteins made by foreign invaders (such as viruses and bacteria). The HLA-DQB1 gene has many different normal variations, allowing each person's immune system to react to a wide range of foreign proteins. A variation of the HLA-DQB1 gene called HLA-DQB1*06:02 has been strongly associated with narcolepsy, particularly in people who also have cataplexy and a loss of hypocretins. Most people with narcolepsy have the HLA-DQB1*06:02 variation, and many also have specific versions of other, closely related HLA genes. It is unclear how these genetic changes influence the risk of developing the condition.  Variations in several additional genes have also been associated with narcolepsy. Many of these genes are thought to play roles in immune system function. However, variations in these genes probably make only a small contribution to the overall risk of developing narcolepsy. Other genetic and environmental factors are also likely to influence a person's chances of developing this disorder. For example, studies suggest that bacterial or viral infections such as strep throat (streptococcus), colds, and influenza may be involved in triggering narcolepsy in people who are at risk."
1740,What are the genetic changes related to Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome ?,"Mutations in the FGFR2 gene cause Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome. This gene produces a protein called fibroblast growth factor receptor 2, which plays an important role in signaling a cell to respond to its environment, perhaps by dividing or maturing. A mutation in the FGFR2 gene alters the protein and promotes prolonged signaling, which is thought to interfere with skeletal and skin development.  Some individuals with Beare-Stevenson cutis gyrata syndrome do not have identified mutations in the FGFR2 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown."
1741,What is (are) Bednar tumor ?,"Bednar tumor is a rare variant of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a soft tissue sarcoma that develops in the deep layers of the skin. It accounts for approximately 1% of all DFSP cases. Bednar tumor is also known as pigmented DFSP because it contains dark-colored cells that give may give the tumor a multi-colored (i.e red and brown) appearance. The tumor may begin as a painless, slow-growing papule or patch of skin; however, accelerated growth, bleeding and/or pain are often observed as it grows. The underlying cause of Bednar tumor is unknown. There is currently no evidence of an inherited risk for the condition and most cases occur sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment varies based on the severity of the condition, the location of the tumor and the overall health of the affected person. The tumor is generally treated with surgery. In advanced cases, radiation therapy and/or systemic therapy may be recommended, as well."
1742,What are the symptoms of Dicarboxylic aminoaciduria ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dicarboxylic aminoaciduria? There are no common signs or symptoms of dicarboxylic aminoaciduria. Hypoglycemia, developmental and neurological abnormalities, and obsessive compulsive tendencies were described in individual cases. Others that have been diagnosed had virtually no signs or symptoms. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dicarboxylic aminoaciduria. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aminoaciduria - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Fasting hypoglycemia - Intellectual disability - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1743,What are the treatments for core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia:  - Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center  - Genetic Testing Registry: Acute myeloid leukemia  - National Cancer Institute: Acute Myeloid Leukemia Treatment  - St. Jude Children's Research Hospital   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1744,Is isobutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1745,How many people are affected by autosomal recessive hyper-IgE syndrome ?,AR-HIES is a rare disorder whose prevalence is unknown.
1746,How to prevent Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome ?,"You can prevent obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) by maintaining a healthy weight. However, not everyone who is obese develops OHS. Researchers don't fully know why only some people who are obese develop the condition.
                
Adopting healthy habits can help you maintain a healthy weight. Many lifestyle habits begin during childhood. So, it's important to make following a healthy lifestyle a family goal.
                
A healthy diet is an important part of a healthy lifestyle. A healthy diet includes a variety of vegetables and fruits. It also includes whole grains, fat-free or low-fat dairy products, and protein foods, such as lean meats, eggs, poultry without skin, seafood, nuts, seeds, beans, and peas.
                
A healthy diet is low in sodium (salt), added sugars, solid fats, and refined grains. Solid fats are saturated fat and trans fatty acids. Refined grains come from processing whole grains, which results in a loss of nutrients (such as dietary fiber). Examples of refined grains include white rice and white bread.
                
For more information about following a healthy diet, go to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's ""Your Guide to Lowering Your Blood Pressure With DASH"" and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's ChooseMyPlate.gov Web site. Both resources provide general information about healthy eating.
                
To adopt other healthy lifestyle habits, follow these tips:
                
Focus on portion size. Watch the portion sizes in fast food and other restaurants. The portions served often are enough for two or three people. Children's portion sizes should be smaller than those for adults. Cutting back on portion sizes will help you manage your calorie intake.
                
Be physically active. Make personal and family time as active as possible. Find activities that everyone will enjoy. For example, go for a brisk walk, bike or rollerblade, or train together for a walk or run.
                
Reduce screen time. Limit the use of TVs, computers, DVDs, and videogames; they cut back on the time for physical activity. Health experts recommend2 hours or less a day of screen time that's not work- or homework-related.
                
Keep track of your weight and body mass index (BMI). BMI is calculated from your height and weight. In adults, a BMI of 30 or more is considered obese. You can use the NHLBI's online BMI calculator to figure out your BMI, or your doctor can help you.
                
For more information, go to the prevention section of the Health Topics Overweight and Obesity article.
                
Even if you have OHS, you might be able to prevent the condition from worsening. For example, avoid alcohol, sedatives, and narcotics. These substances can interfere with how well your body is able to maintain normal carbon dioxide and oxygen levels."
1747,What are the symptoms of Sillence syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Sillence syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Sillence syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of thumb phalanx 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Scoliosis 90% Tall stature 90% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology 50% Anonychia 50% Epicanthus 50% Single transverse palmar crease 50% Narrow face 7.5% Aplasia of the middle phalanx of the hand - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bilateral single transverse palmar creases - Broad foot - Chess-pawn distal phalanges - Distal symphalangism (hands) - Flat acetabular roof - Pes cavus - Short 1st metacarpal - Thoracolumbar scoliosis - Type A1 brachydactyly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1748,Is Alopecia universalis inherited ?,"Is alopecia universalis inherited? Alopecia universalis is believed to be a multifactorial condition, which means it is caused by a combination of environmental influences and genetic predisposition. While a predisposition can be inherited and some affected people have a family history, the condition itself is not thought to be inherited."
1749,How many people are affected by Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome ?,"The prevalence of Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome is estimated to be 1 in 50,000 births. However, this may be an underestimate because it is likely that some affected individuals are never diagnosed.  For unknown reasons, Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome occurs in about twice as many females as males."
1750,Is congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles inherited ?,"The different types of congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles have different patterns of inheritance. CFEOM1 and CFEOM3 are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  CFEOM2 is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Tukel syndrome also appears to have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, although the genetic change responsible for this disorder is unknown."
1751,What are the treatments for Aquagenic pruritus ?,"What treatment has been attempted in patients who have aquagenic pruritus? The underlying cause of aquagenic pruritus is not well understood which complicates the decision about what therapy might be best for treatment. Various options have been tried with varying success. Antihistamines are the mainstay of treatment. Other therapies that have been tried include adding adding sodium bicarbonate to bath water, topical capsaicin, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, UVB phototherapy, PUVA therapy, naltrexone, propranolol, and atenolol."
1752,What are the symptoms of Dwarfism stiff joint ocular abnormalities ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dwarfism stiff joint ocular abnormalities? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dwarfism stiff joint ocular abnormalities. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Cataract - Delayed ossification of carpal bones - Disproportionate short-limb short stature - Glaucoma - Hypermetropia - Joint stiffness - Retinal detachment - Severe short stature - Short lower limbs - Short phalanx of finger - Thickened skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1753,Is inclusion body myopathy 2 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1754,How many people are affected by oculofaciocardiodental syndrome ?,OFCD syndrome is very rare; the incidence is estimated to be less than 1 in 1 million people.
1755,Is catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia inherited ?,"When CPVT results from mutations in the RYR2 gene, it has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In about half of cases, an affected person inherits an RYR2 gene mutation from one affected parent. The remaining cases result from new mutations in the RYR2 gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family.  When CPVT is caused by mutations in the CASQ2 gene, the condition has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means that both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1756,Is Nijmegen breakage syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1757,Is spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. An affected person usually inherits the altered gene from one affected parent. However, some people with SCA2 do not have a parent with the disorder. Individuals who have an increase in the number of CAG repeats in the ATXN2 gene, but do not develop SCA2, are at risk of having children who will develop the disorder.  As the altered ATXN2 gene is passed down from one generation to the next, the length of the CAG trinucleotide repeat often increases. A larger number of repeats is usually associated with an earlier onset of signs and symptoms. This phenomenon is called anticipation. Anticipation tends to be more prominent when the ATXN2 gene is inherited from a person's father (paternal inheritance) than when it is inherited from a person's mother (maternal inheritance)."
1758,What is (are) Klippel Feil syndrome ?,"Klippel Feil syndrome (KFS) is a congenital, musculoskeletal condition characterized by the fusion of at least two vertebrae of the neck. Common symptoms include a short neck, low hairline at the back of the head, and restricted mobility of the upper spine. This condition can cause chronic headaches as well as pain in both the neck and the back. Other features may involve various other body parts or systems. Sometimes, KFS occurs as a feature of another disorder or syndrome, such as Wildervanck syndrome or hemifacial microsomia. In these cases, affected people have the features of both KFS and the additional disorder. KFS may be caused by mutations in the GDF6 or GDF3 gene and inherited in an autosomal dominant manner; or, it may be caused by mutations in the MEOX1 gene and inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment is symptomatic and may include medications, surgery, and/or physical therapy."
1759,What is (are) Epilepsy ?,"The epilepsies are a spectrum of brain disorders ranging from severe, life-threatening and disabling, to ones that are much more benign. In epilepsy, the normal pattern of neuronal activity becomes disturbed, causing strange sensations, emotions, and behavior or sometimes convulsions, muscle spasms, and loss of consciousness. The epilepsies have many possible causes and there are several types of seizures. Anything that disturbs the normal pattern of neuron activityfrom illness to brain damage to abnormal brain developmentcan lead to seizures. Epilepsy may develop because of an abnormality in brain wiring, an imbalance of nerve signaling chemicals called neurotransmitters, changes in important features of brain cells called channels, or some combination of these and other factors. Having a single seizure as the result of a high fever (called febrile seizure) or head injury does not necessarily mean that a person has epilepsy. Only when a person has had two or more seizures is he or she considered to have epilepsy. A measurement of electrical activity in the brain and brain scans such as magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography are common diagnostic tests for epilepsy."
1760,How many people are affected by Ochoa syndrome ?,Ochoa syndrome is a rare disorder. About 150 cases have been reported in the medical literature.
1761,What is (are) Chronic Fatigue Syndrome ?,"Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a disorder that causes extreme fatigue. This fatigue is not the kind of tired feeling that goes away after you rest. Instead, it lasts a long time and limits your ability to do ordinary daily activities.    The main symptom of CFS is severe fatigue that lasts for 6 months or more. You also have at least four of these other symptoms:       - Feeling unwell for more than 24 hours after physical activity    - Muscle pain    - Memory problems    - Headaches    - Pain in multiple joints    - Sleep problems    - Sore throat    - Tender lymph nodes       CFS is hard to diagnose. There are no tests for it, and other illnesses can cause similar symptoms. Your doctor has to rule out other diseases before making a diagnosis of CFS.    No one knows what causes CFS. It is most common in women in their 40s and 50s, but anyone can have it. It can last for years. There is no cure for CFS, so the goal of treatment is to improve symptoms. Medicine may treat pain, sleep disorders, and other problems. Lifestyle changes, coping techniques, and a special, gradual exercise program can also help.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
1762,What are the treatments for Perrault syndrome ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Perrault syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Perrault Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Gonadal dysgenesis with auditory dysfunction, autosomal recessive inheritance  - Genetic Testing Registry: Perrault syndrome 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Perrault syndrome 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Perrault syndrome 5   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1763,How to diagnose Parasites - Babesiosis ?,"In symptomatic people, babesiosis usually is diagnosed by examining blood specimens under a microscope and seeing Babesia parasites inside red blood cells.
    
To be sure the diagnosis is correct, your health care provider might have specimens of your blood tested by a specialized reference laboratory (such as at CDC or a health department).
    
More on: Resources for Health Professionals: Diagnosis"
1764,What is (are) Opsismodysplasia ?,"Opsismodysplasia is a rare skeletal dysplasia characterized by congenital short stature and characteristic craniofacial abnormalities. Clinical signs observed at birth include short limbs, small hands and feet, relative macrocephaly with a large anterior fontanel (the space between the front bones of the skull), and characteristic craniofacial abnormalities including a prominent brow, depressed nasal bridge, a small anteverted nose, and a relatively long philtrum. Children with opsismodysplasia are at an increased risk for respiratory infections and respiratory failure. This condition is caused by mutations in the INPPL1 the gene. It is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner."
1765,What are the symptoms of Pityriasis rubra pilaris ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Pityriasis rubra pilaris? Features of this condition vary greatly between affected individuals. The onset is gradual in the familial type and can be more rapid in the acquired type. Redness and scaling of the face and scalp are often seen first, followed by redness and thickening of the palms and soles. Overall, the elbows, knees, backs of the hands and feet, and ankles are most commonly affected. A more widespread eruption consisting of scaling orange-red plaques can be observed on the trunk and extremities. The lesions may expand and coalesce and eventually cover the entire body. When the disease becomes widespread, the nails, mucous membranes and eyes may be affected. The familial type often persists throughout life, but the acquired form may have periods of remission (periods of time where symptoms improve or completely resolve). The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Pityriasis rubra pilaris. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Irregular hyperpigmentation 90% Palmoplantar keratoderma 90% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Pruritus 50% Abnormality of the oral cavity 7.5% Eczema 7.5% Ichthyosis 7.5% Lichenification 7.5% Neoplasm 7.5% Pustule 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Subungual hyperkeratosis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1766,What is (are) hidradenitis suppurativa ?,"Hidradenitis suppurativa, also known as acne inversa, is a chronic skin disease characterized by recurrent boil-like lumps (nodules) under the skin. The nodules become inflamed and painful. They tend to break open (rupture), causing abscesses that drain fluid and pus. As the abscesses heal, they produce significant scarring of the skin.  The signs and symptoms of hidradenitis suppurativa appear after puberty, usually in a person's teens or twenties. Nodules are most likely to form in the armpits and groin. They may also develop around the anus, on the buttocks, or under the breasts. In some cases, nodules appear in other areas, such as the nape of the neck, waist, and inner thighs.  The recurrent nodules and abscesses cause chronic pain and can lead to self-consciousness, social isolation, and depression. Rarely, nodules on the buttocks can develop into a type of skin cancer called squamous cell carcinoma."
1767,Is autosomal recessive congenital stationary night blindness inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1768,How many people are affected by familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection ?,"Familial TAAD is believed to account for at least 20 percent of thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections. In the remainder of cases, the abnormalities are thought to be caused by factors that are not inherited, such as damage to the walls of the aorta from aging, tobacco use, injury, or disease.  While aortic aneurysms are common worldwide, it is difficult to determine their exact prevalence because they usually cause no symptoms unless they rupture. Ruptured aortic aneurysms and dissections are estimated to cause almost 30,000 deaths in the United States each year."
1769,"What are the genetic changes related to T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy ?","T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy results from mutations in the FOXN1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is important for development of the skin, hair, nails, and immune system. Studies suggest that this protein helps guide the formation of hair follicles and the growth of fingernails and toenails. The FOXN1 protein also plays a critical role in the formation of the thymus, which is a gland located behind the breastbone where T cells mature and become functional. Researchers suspect that the FOXN1 protein is also involved in the development of the central nervous system, although its role is unclear.  Mutations in the FOXN1 gene prevent cells from making any functional FOXN1 protein. Without this protein, hair and nails cannot grow normally. A lack of FOXN1 protein also prevents the formation of the thymus. When this gland is not present, the immune system cannot produce mature, functional T cells to fight infections. As a result, people with T-cell immunodeficiency, congenital alopecia, and nail dystrophy develop recurrent serious infections starting early in life."
1770,Is Pendred syndrome inherited ?,"How is Pendred syndrome inherited? Pendred syndrome is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. For most autosomal recessive conditions, a person must have 2 changed (mutated) copies of the responsible gene in each cell in order to have the condition. One changed copy of the responsible gene is usually inherited from each parent; the parents are referred to as carriers. Carriers typically do not have signs or symptoms of the condition. When two carriers of an autosomal recessive condition have children, each child has a 25% (1 in 4) chance to be affected, a 50% (1 in 2) chance to be a carrier like each parent, and a 25% chance to not be a carrier and not have the condition. Pendred syndrome can be caused either by having mutations in both copies of the SLC26A4 gene (more commonly), or by having one mutation in the SLC26A4 gene and one mutation in another gene."
1771,What is (are) Primary Hyperparathyroidism ?,"High PTH levels trigger the bones to release increased amounts of calcium into the blood, causing blood calcium levels to rise above normal. The loss of calcium from bones may weaken the bones. Also, the small intestine may absorb more calcium from food, adding to the excess calcium in the blood. In response to high blood calcium levels, the kidneys excrete more calcium in the urine, which can lead to kidney stones.
                
High blood calcium levels might contribute to other problems, such as heart disease, high blood pressure, and difficulty with concentration. However, more research is needed to better understand how primary hyperparathyroidism affects the cardiovascular systemthe heart and blood vesselsand the central nervous systemthe brain and spinal cord."
1772,Do you have information about Cancer--Living with Cancer,"Summary : Cancer is common. Half of all men and a third of women will get a diagnosis of cancer in their lifetime. Many people with cancer do survive. Millions of Americans alive today have a history of cancer.    For most people with cancer, living with the disease is the biggest challenge they have ever faced. It can change your routines, roles and relationships. It can cause money and work problems. The treatment can change the way you feel and look. Learning more about ways you can help yourself may ease some of your concerns. Support from others is important.    All cancer survivors should have follow-up care. Knowing what to expect after cancer treatment can help you and your family make plans, lifestyle changes, and important decisions.    NIH: National Cancer Institute"
1773,What is (are) Am I at Risk for Type 2 Diabetes? Taking Steps to Lower Your Risk of Getting Diabetes ?,"Type 2 diabetes, formerly called adult-onset diabetes, is the most common type of diabetes. About 95 percent of people with diabetes have type 2. People can develop type 2 diabetes at any age, even during childhood. However, this type of diabetes develops most often in middle-aged and older people. People who are overweight and inactive are also more likely to develop type 2 diabetes.
                
In type 2 and other types of diabetes, you have too much glucose, also called sugar, in your blood. People with diabetes have problems converting food to energy. After a meal, food is broken down into glucose, which is carried by your blood to cells throughout your body. With the help of the hormone insulin, cells absorb glucose from your blood and use it for energy. Insulin is made in the pancreas, an organ located behind the stomach.
                
Type 2 diabetes usually begins with insulin resistance, a condition linked to excess weight in which your bodys cells do not use insulin properly. As a result, your body needs more insulin to help glucose enter cells. At first, your pancreas keeps up with the added demand by producing more insulin. But in time, your pancreas loses its ability to produce enough insulin, and blood glucose levels rise.
                
Over time, high blood glucose damages nerves and blood vessels, leading to problems such as heart disease, stroke, kidney disease, blindness, dental disease, and amputations. Other problems of diabetes may include increased risk of getting other diseases, loss of mobility with aging, depression, and pregnancy problems.
                
Treatment includes taking diabetes medicines, making wise food choices, being physically active on a regular basis, controlling blood pressure and cholesterol, and for some, taking aspirin daily."
1774,What are the treatments for Zellweger spectrum disorder ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of Zellweger spectrum disorder:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Peroxisome Biogenesis Disorders, Zellweger Syndrome Spectrum  - Genetic Testing Registry: Infantile Refsum's disease  - Genetic Testing Registry: Neonatal adrenoleucodystrophy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Peroxisome biogenesis disorders, Zellweger syndrome spectrum  - Genetic Testing Registry: Zellweger syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Seizures   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1775,What to do for Viral Hepatitis: A through E and Beyond ?,"- Viral hepatitis is inflammation of the liver caused by the hepatitis A, B, C, D, or E viruses.  - Depending on the type of virus, viral hepatitis is spread through contaminated food or water, contact with infected blood, sexual contact with an infected person, or from mother to child during childbirth.  - Vaccines offer protection from hepatitis A and hepatitis B.  - No vaccines are available for hepatitis C, D, and E. Reducing exposure to the viruses offers the best protection.  - Hepatitis A and E usually resolve on their own. Hepatitis B, C, and D can be chronic and serious. Drugs are available to treat chronic hepatitis."
1776,What is the outlook for Schizencephaly ?,The prognosis for individuals with schizencephaly varies depending on the size of the clefts and the extent of neurological disabilities.
1777,What is (are) Polycystic liver disease ?,"Polycystic liver disease is an inherited condition characterized by many cysts of various sizes scattered throughout the liver. Abdominal discomfort from swelling of the liver may occur; however, most affected individuals do not have any symptoms. In some cases, polycystic liver disease appears to occur randomly, with no apparent cause. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. Sometimes, cysts are found in the liver in association with the presence of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (AD-PKD). In fact, about half of the people who have AD-PKD experience liver cysts. However, kidney cysts are uncommon in those affected by polycystic liver disease."
1778,What are the symptoms of Nievergelt syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Nievergelt syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Nievergelt syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fibula 90% Abnormality of the tibia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 90% Camptodactyly of finger 90% Elbow dislocation 90% Genu valgum 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Micromelia 90% Radioulnar synostosis 90% Short stature 90% Tarsal synostosis 90% Abnormality of the wrist 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Dolichocephaly 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Genu varum 7.5% Large face 7.5% Sacral dimple 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Single transverse palmar crease 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Mesomelia - Mesomelic short stature - Metatarsal synostosis - Overgrowth - Radial head subluxation - Skin dimples - Talipes equinovarus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1779,Do you have information about Diabetic Diet,"Summary : If you have diabetes, your body cannot make or properly use insulin. This leads to high blood glucose, or blood sugar, levels. Healthy eating helps keep your blood sugar in your target range. It is a critical part of managing your diabetes, because controlling your blood sugar can prevent the complications of diabetes.     A registered dietitian can help make an eating plan just for you. It should take into account your weight, medicines, lifestyle, and other health problems you have.    Healthy diabetic eating includes        - Limiting foods that are high in sugar     - Eating smaller portions, spread out over the day    - Being careful about when and how many carbohydrates you eat    - Eating a variety of whole-grain foods, fruits and vegetables every day    - Eating less fat    - Limiting your use of alcohol    - Using less salt       NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1780,How to diagnose Binswanger's disease ?,How is Binswanger's disease diagnosed? A diagnosis of Binswanger's disease is often suspected based on the presence of characteristic signs and symptoms. Additional testing can then be ordered to confirm the diagnosis. This generally consists of imaging studies of the brain (i.e. CT scan and/or MRI scan).
1781,What are the genetic changes related to isolated Duane retraction syndrome ?,"In most people with isolated Duane retraction syndrome, the cause of the condition is unknown. However, researchers have identified mutations in one gene, CHN1, that cause the disorder in a small number of families. The CHN1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the early development of the nervous system. Specifically, the protein appears to be critical for the formation of nerves that control several of the muscles surrounding the eyes (extraocular muscles). Mutations in the CHN1 gene disrupt the normal development of these nerves and the extraocular muscles needed for side-to-side eye movement. Abnormal function of these muscles leads to restricted eye movement and related problems with vision."
1782,What is (are) spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 ?,"Spinal muscular atrophy with respiratory distress type 1 (SMARD1) is an inherited condition that causes muscle weakness and respiratory failure typically beginning in infancy. Early features of this condition are difficult and noisy breathing, especially when inhaling; a weak cry; problems feeding; and recurrent episodes of pneumonia. Typically between the ages of 6 weeks and 6 months, infants with this condition will experience a sudden inability to breathe due to paralysis of the muscle that separates the abdomen from the chest cavity (the diaphragm). Normally, the diaphragm contracts and moves downward during inhalation to allow the lungs to expand. With diaphragm paralysis, affected individuals require life-long support with a machine to help them breathe (mechanical ventilation). Rarely, children with SMARD1 develop signs or symptoms of the disorder later in childhood.  Soon after respiratory failure occurs, individuals with SMARD1 develop muscle weakness in their distal muscles. These are the muscles farther from the center of the body, such as muscles in the hands and feet. The weakness soon spreads to all muscles; however, within 2 years, the muscle weakness typically stops getting worse. Some individuals may retain a low level of muscle function, while others lose all ability to move their muscles. Muscle weakness severely impairs motor development, such as sitting, standing, and walking. Some affected children develop an abnormal side-to-side and back-to-front curvature of the spine (scoliosis and kyphosis, often called kyphoscoliosis when they occur together). After approximately the first year of life, individuals with SMARD1 may lose their deep tendon reflexes, such as the reflex being tested when a doctor taps the knee with a hammer.  Other features of SMARD1 can include reduced pain sensitivity, excessive sweating (hyperhidrosis), loss of bladder and bowel control, and an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia)."
1783,What are the treatments for Best vitelliform macular dystrophy ?,"How might Best vitelliform macular dystrophy be treated? There is no specific treatment for Best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD) at this time. Low vision aids help affected people with significant loss of visual acuity. Laser photocoagulation, photodynamic therapy, and anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) agents such as bevacizumab have shown limited success in treating some of the secondary features of BVMD such as choroidal neovascularization (when abnormal blood vessels grow under the macula and retina)."
1784,Do you have information about Teen Mental Health,"Summary : Being a teenager is hard. You're under stress to be liked, do well in school, get along with your family, and make big decisions. You can't avoid most of these pressures, and worrying about them is normal. But feeling very sad, hopeless or worthless could be warning signs of a mental health problem.    Mental health problems are real, painful, and sometimes severe. You might need help if you have the signs mentioned above, or if you        -  Often feel very angry or very worried     -  Feel grief for a long time after a loss or death    -  Think your mind is controlled or out of control    -  Use alcohol or drugs    -  Exercise, diet and/or binge-eat obsessively     -  Hurt other people or destroy property     -  Do reckless things that could harm you or others       Mental health problems can be treated. To find help, talk to your parents, school counselor, or health care provider."
1785,How many people are affected by carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency ?,"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency is a rare disorder; its overall incidence is unknown. Researchers in Japan have estimated that it occurs in 1 in 800,000 newborns in that country."
1786,What is (are) pseudoxanthoma elasticum ?,"Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is a progressive disorder that is characterized by the accumulation of deposits of calcium and other minerals (mineralization) in elastic fibers. Elastic fibers are a component of connective tissue, which provides strength and flexibility to structures throughout the body.  In PXE, mineralization can affect elastic fibers in the skin, eyes, and blood vessels, and less frequently in other areas such as the digestive tract. People with PXE may have yellowish bumps called papules on their necks, underarms, and other areas of skin that touch when a joint bends (flexor areas). They may also have abnormalities in the eyes, such as a change in the pigmented cells of the retina (the light-sensitive layer of cells at the back of the eye) known as peau d'orange. Another eye abnormality known as angioid streaks occurs when tiny breaks form in the layer of tissue under the retina called Bruch's membrane. Bleeding and scarring of the retina may also occur, which can cause vision loss.  Mineralization of the blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body (arteries) may cause other signs and symptoms of PXE. For example, people with this condition can develop narrowing of the arteries (arteriosclerosis) or a condition called claudication that is characterized by cramping and pain during exercise due to decreased blood flow to the arms and legs. Rarely, bleeding from blood vessels in the digestive tract may also occur."
1787,What is (are) megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts ?,"Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts is a progressive condition that affects brain development and function. Individuals with this condition typically have an enlarged brain (megalencephaly) that is evident at birth or within the first year of life. Megalencephaly leads to an increase in the size of the head (macrocephaly). Affected people also have leukoencephalopathy, an abnormality of the brain's white matter. White matter consists of nerve fibers covered by a fatty substance called myelin. Myelin insulates nerve fibers and promotes the rapid transmission of nerve impulses. In megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts, the myelin is swollen and contains numerous fluid-filled pockets (vacuoles). Over time, the swelling decreases and the myelin begins to waste away (atrophy). Individuals affected with this condition may develop cysts in the brain; because these cysts form below an area of the brain called the cerebral cortex, they are called subcortical cysts. These cysts can grow in size and number.  The brain abnormalities in people with megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts affect the use of muscles and lead to movement problems. Affected individuals typically experience muscle stiffness (spasticity) and difficulty coordinating movements (ataxia). Walking ability varies greatly among those affected. Some people lose the ability to walk early in life and need wheelchair assistance, while others are able to walk unassisted well into adulthood. Minor head trauma can further impair movements and may lead to coma. Affected individuals may also develop uncontrolled muscle tensing (dystonia), involuntary writhing movements of the limbs (athetosis), difficulty swallowing (dysphagia), and impaired speech (dysarthria). More than half of all people with this condition have recurrent seizures (epilepsy). Despite the widespread brain abnormalities, people with this condition typically have only mild to moderate intellectual disability.  There are three types of megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts, which are distinguished by their signs and symptoms and genetic cause. Types 1 and 2A have different genetic causes but are nearly identical in signs and symptoms. Types 2A and 2B have the same genetic cause but the signs and symptoms of type 2B often begin to improve after one year. After improvement, individuals with type 2B usually have macrocephaly and may have intellectual disability."
1788,What are the treatments for Prostate Cancer ?,"With watchful waiting, a man's condition is closely monitored, but treatment does not begin until symptoms appear or change. The doctor may suggest watchful waiting for some men who have prostate cancer that is found at an early stage and appears to be growing slowly. Also, watchful waiting may be advised for older men or men with other serious medical problems. For these men, the risks and possible side effects of surgery, radiation therapy, or hormonal therapy may outweigh the possible benefits. Doctors monitor these patients with regular check-ups. If symptoms appear or get worse, the doctor may recommend active treatment."
1789,What are the stages of Myelodysplastic/ Myeloproliferative Neoplasms ?,"Key Points
                    - There is no standard staging system for myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms.
                
                
                    There is no standard staging system for myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms.
                    Staging is the process used to find out how far the cancer has spread. There is no standard staging system for myelodysplastic /myeloproliferative neoplasms. Treatment is based on the type of myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm the patient has. It is important to know the type in order to plan treatment."
1790,What are the treatments for McCune-Albright syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of McCune-Albright syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Fibrous Dysplasia/McCune-Albright Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: McCune-Albright syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: McCune-Albright syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1791,What is (are) Pitt-Hopkins syndrome ?,"Pitt-Hopkins syndrome is a condition characterized by intellectual disability and developmental delay, breathing problems, recurrent seizures (epilepsy), and distinctive facial features.  People with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome have moderate to severe intellectual disability. Most affected individuals have delayed development of mental and motor skills (psychomotor delay). They are delayed in learning to walk and developing fine motor skills such as picking up small items with their fingers. People with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome typically do not develop speech; some may learn to say a few words. Many affected individuals exhibit features of autistic spectrum disorders, which are characterized by impaired communication and socialization skills.  Breathing problems in individuals with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome are characterized by episodes of rapid breathing (hyperventilation) followed by periods in which breathing slows or stops (apnea). These episodes can cause a lack of oxygen in the blood, leading to a bluish appearance of the skin or lips (cyanosis). In some cases, the lack of oxygen can cause loss of consciousness. Some older individuals with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome develop widened and rounded tips of the fingers and toes (clubbing) because of recurrent episodes of decreased oxygen in the blood. The breathing problems occur only when the person is awake and typically first appear in mid-childhood, but they can begin as early as infancy. Episodes of hyperventilation and apnea can be triggered by emotions such as excitement or anxiety or by extreme tiredness (fatigue).  Epilepsy occurs in most people with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome and usually begins during childhood, although it can be present from birth.  Individuals with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome have distinctive facial features that include thin eyebrows, sunken eyes, a prominent nose with a high nasal bridge, a pronounced double curve of the upper lip (Cupid's bow), a wide mouth with full lips, and widely spaced teeth. The ears are usually thick and cup-shaped.  Children with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome typically have a happy, excitable demeanor with frequent smiling, laughter, and hand-flapping movements. However, they can also experience anxiety and behavioral problems.  Other features of Pitt-Hopkins syndrome may include constipation and other gastrointestinal problems, an unusually small head (microcephaly), nearsightedness (myopia), eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus), short stature, and minor brain abnormalities. Affected individuals may also have small hands and feet, a single crease across the palms of the hands, flat feet (pes planus), or unusually fleshy pads at the tips of the fingers and toes. Males with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome may have undescended testes (cryptorchidism)."
1792,What is (are) Chronic Bronchitis ?,"Bronchitis is an inflammation of the bronchial tubes, the airways that carry air to your lungs. It causes a cough that often brings up mucus. It can also cause shortness of breath, wheezing, a low fever, and chest tightness. There are two main types of bronchitis: acute and chronic.     Chronic bronchitis is one type of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). The inflamed bronchial tubes produce a lot of mucus. This leads to coughing and difficulty breathing. Cigarette smoking is the most common cause. Breathing in air pollution, fumes, or dust over a long period of time may also cause it.    To diagnose chronic bronchitis, your doctor will look at your signs and symptoms and listen to your breathing. You may also have other tests.    Chronic bronchitis is a long-term condition that keeps coming back or never goes away completely. If you smoke, it is important to quit. Treatment can help with your symptoms. It often includes medicines to open your airways and help clear away mucus. You may also need oxygen therapy. Pulmonary rehabilitation may help you manage better in daily life.    NIH: National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute"
1793,Do you have information about Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Health,"Summary : Every racial or ethnic group has specific health concerns. Differences in the health of groups can result from:       - Genetics    - Environmental factors    - Access to care    - Cultural factors       On this page, you'll find links to health issues that affect Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders."
1794,What is (are) Cataract ?,"Yes. There are two types of cataract surgery, phacoemulsification and extracapsular surgery. Your doctor can explain the differences and help determine which is better for you. With phacoemulsification, or phaco, a small incision is made on the side of the cornea, the clear, dome-shaped surface that covers the front of the eye. Your doctor inserts a tiny probe into the eye. This device emits ultrasound waves that soften and break up the lens so that it can be removed by suction. Most cataract surgery today is done by phacoemulsification, also called ""small incision cataract surgery."" With extracapsular surgery, your doctor makes a longer incision on the side of the cornea and removes the cloudy core of the lens in one piece. The rest of the lens is removed by suction."
1795,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Stroke ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) conducts stroke research and clinical trials at its laboratories and clinics at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently, NINDS researchers are studying the mechanisms of stroke risk factors and the process of brain damage that results from stroke. Basic research has also focused on the genetics of stroke and stroke risk factors. Scientists are working to develop new and better ways to help the brain repair itself to restore important functions. New advances in imaging and rehabilitation have shown that the brain can compensate for function lost as a result of stroke."
1796,Is acromicric dysplasia inherited ?,"Acromicric dysplasia is an autosomal dominant condition, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family. In other cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent."
1797,What is (are) PMM2-congenital disorder of glycosylation ?,"PMM2-congenital disorder of glycosylation (PMM2-CDG, also known as congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ia) is an inherited condition that affects many parts of the body. The type and severity of problems associated with PMM2-CDG vary widely among affected individuals, sometimes even among members of the same family.  Individuals with PMM2-CDG typically develop signs and symptoms of the condition during infancy. Affected infants may have weak muscle tone (hypotonia), retracted (inverted) nipples, an abnormal distribution of fat, eyes that do not look in the same direction (strabismus), developmental delay, and a failure to gain weight and grow at the expected rate (failure to thrive). Infants with PMM2-CDG also frequently have an underdeveloped cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that coordinates movement. Distinctive facial features are sometimes present in affected individuals, including a high forehead, a triangular face, large ears, and a thin upper lip. Children with PMM2-CDG may also have elevated liver function test results, seizures, fluid around the heart (pericardial effusion), and blood clotting disorders. About 20 percent of affected infants do not survive the first year of life due to multiple organ failure.  The most severe cases of PMM2-CDG are characterized by hydrops fetalis, a condition in which excess fluid builds up in the body before birth. Most babies with hydrops fetalis are stillborn or die soon after birth.  People with PMM2-CDG who survive infancy may have moderate intellectual disability, and some are unable to walk independently. Affected individuals may also experience stroke-like episodes that involve an extreme lack of energy (lethargy) and temporary paralysis. Recovery from these episodes usually occurs over a period of a few weeks to several months.  During adolescence or adulthood, individuals with PMM2-CDG have reduced sensation and weakness in their arms and legs (peripheral neuropathy), an abnormal curvature of the spine (kyphoscoliosis), impaired muscle coordination (ataxia), and joint deformities (contractures). Some affected individuals have an eye disorder called retinitis pigmentosa that causes vision loss. Females with PMM2-CDG have hypergonadotropic hypogonadism, which affects the production of hormones that direct sexual development. As a result, females with PMM2-CDG do not go through puberty. Affected males experience normal puberty but often have small testes."
1798,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chiari Malformation ?,"The NINDS supports research on disorders of the brain and nervous system such as Chiari malformations. The goals of this research are to increase scientific understanding of these disorders and to find ways to prevent, treat, and, ultimately, cure them. Current NINDS-funded research includes studies to better understand the genetic factors responsible for the malformation, and factors that influence the development, progression, and relief of symptoms among people with syringomyelia, including those with Chiari I malformations."
1799,Is multiminicore disease inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1800,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Sydenham Chorea ?,"The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and other institutes of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) conduct research related to SD in laboratories at the NIH, and support additional research through grants to major medical institutions across the country. Currently, researchers are studying how the interplay of genetic, developmental, and environmental factors could determine a childs vulnerability to SD after a GABHS infection. Other researchers are exploring whether children whose symptoms either begin or get worse following a GABHS infection share a common set of abnormal biomolecular pathways responsible for their similar clinical symptoms."
1801,How many people are affected by cap myopathy ?,Cap myopathy is a rare disorder that has been identified in only a small number of individuals. Its exact prevalence is unknown.
1802,What are the symptoms of Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Acute kidney injury - Anuria - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cognitive impairment - Coma - Decreased serum complement C3 - Decreased serum complement factor B - Decreased serum complement factor H - Decreased serum complement factor I - Diarrhea - Dysphasia - Elevated serum creatinine - Fever - Hemiparesis - Hemolytic-uremic syndrome - Hyperlipidemia - Hypertension - Increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN) - Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia - Purpura - Reticulocytosis - Schistocytosis - Seizures - Thrombocytopenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1803,What are the treatments for Williams Syndrome ?,"There is no cure for Williams syndrome, nor is there a standard course of treatment. Because WS is an uncommon and complex disorder, multidisciplinary clinics have been established at several centers in the       United States   . Treatments are based on an individuals particular symptoms. People with WS require regular cardiovascular monitoring for potential medical problems, such as symptomatic narrowing of the blood vessels, high blood pressure, and heart failure"
1804,How many people are affected by Netherton syndrome ?,"Netherton syndrome is estimated to affect 1 in 200,000 newborns."
1805,What is (are) Familial atrial fibrillation ?,"Familial atrial fibrillation is an inherited heart condition that disrupts the heart's rhythm. It is characterized by erratic electrical activity in the heart's upper chambers (the atria), causing an irregular response in the heart's lower chambers (the ventricles). This causes a fast and irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia). Signs and symptoms may include dizziness, chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, or fainting. Affected people also have an increased risk of stroke and sudden death. While complications may occur at any age, some affected people never have associated health problems. Familial atrial fibrillation may be caused by changes (mutations) in any of various genes, some of which have not been identified. It is most often inherited in an autosomal dominant manner, but autosomal recessive inheritance has been reported."
1806,What is (are) sensorineural deafness and male infertility ?,"Sensorineural deafness and male infertility is a condition characterized by hearing loss and an inability to father children. Affected individuals have moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss, which is caused by abnormalities in the inner ear. The hearing loss is typically diagnosed in early childhood and does not worsen over time. Males with this condition produce sperm that have decreased movement (motility), causing affected males to be infertile."
1807,Who is at risk for Osteoporosis? ?,"Here are risk factors for osteoporosis that you can control. -  Poor diet. Getting too little calcium over your lifetime can increase your risk for osteoporosis. Not getting enough vitamin D -- either from your diet, supplements, or sunlight -- can also increase your risk for osteoporosis. Vitamin D is important because it helps the body absorb calcium. An overall diet adequate in protein and other vitamins and minerals is also essential for bone health.  - Physical inactivity. Not exercising and being inactive or staying in bed for long periods can increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Like muscles, bones become stronger with exercise.  - Smoking. Cigarette smokers may absorb less calcium from their diets. In addition, women who smoke have lower levels of estrogen in their bodies.  Learn more about smoking and bone health.    - Medications.  Some commonly used medicines can cause loss of bone mass. These include a type of steroid called glucocorticoids, which are used to control diseases such as arthritis and asthma; some antiseizure drugs; some medicines that treat endometriosis; and some cancer drugs. Using too much thyroid hormone for an underactive thyroid can also be a problem. Talk to your doctor about the medications you are taking and what you can do to protect your bones.  - Low body weight. Women who are thin -- and small-boned -- are at greater risk for osteoporosis. Poor diet. Getting too little calcium over your lifetime can increase your risk for osteoporosis. Not getting enough vitamin D -- either from your diet, supplements, or sunlight -- can also increase your risk for osteoporosis. Vitamin D is important because it helps the body absorb calcium. An overall diet adequate in protein and other vitamins and minerals is also essential for bone health. Physical inactivity. Not exercising and being inactive or staying in bed for long periods can increase your risk of developing osteoporosis. Like muscles, bones become stronger with exercise. Smoking. Cigarette smokers may absorb less calcium from their diets. In addition, women who smoke have lower levels of estrogen in their bodies.  Learn more about smoking and bone health.  Medications.  Some commonly used medicines can cause loss of bone mass. These include a type of steroid called glucocorticoids, which are used to control diseases such as arthritis and asthma; some antiseizure drugs; some medicines that treat endometriosis; and some cancer drugs. Using too much thyroid hormone for an underactive thyroid can also be a problem. Talk to your doctor about the medications you are taking and what you can do to protect your bones. Low body weight. Women who are thin -- and small-boned -- are at greater risk for osteoporosis."
1808,How to diagnose Mastocytic enterocolitis ?,"How is mastocytic enterocolits diagnosed? Mastocytic enterocolitis is diagnosed after an endoscopic procedure in which the doctor takes samples of tissues (biopsies) from the lining of the intestines. The tissue is then sent to a pathologist who looks at it under the microscope. Mast cells may be hard to see on biopsies without a special stain for tryptase, an enzyme present in mast cells. Mastocytic enterocolitis is diagnosed when excess mast cells are present in the small bowel or the colon."
1809,What is (are) Hypothyroidism ?,"Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in your neck, just above your collarbone. It is one of your endocrine glands, which make hormones. Thyroid hormones control the rate of many activities in your body. These include how fast you burn calories and how fast your heart beats. All of these activities are your body's metabolism. If your thyroid gland is not active enough, it does not make enough thyroid hormone to meet your body's needs. This condition is hypothyroidism.    Hypothyroidism is more common in women, people with other thyroid problems, and those over 60 years old. Hashimoto's disease, an autoimmune disorder, is the most common cause. Other causes include thyroid nodules, thyroiditis, congenital hypothyroidism, surgical removal of part or all of the thyroid, radiation treatment of the thyroid, and some medicines.    The symptoms can vary from person to person. They may include       - Fatigue    - Weight gain    - A puffy face    - Cold intolerance    - Joint and muscle pain    - Constipation    - Dry skin    - Dry, thinning hair    - Decreased sweating    - Heavy or irregular menstrual periods and fertility problems    - Depression    - Slowed heart rate       To diagnose hypothyroidism, your doctor will look at your symptoms and blood tests. Treatment is with synthetic thyroid hormone, taken every day.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1810,What is (are) Depression ?,"Depression is more than just feeling blue or sad. It is an illness. When you have depression, it interferes with daily life and normal functioning, and causes pain for both you and those who care about you."
1811,What are the symptoms of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Hallermann-Streiff syndrome vary in range and severity among affected individuals. The main features of the condition include abnormalities of the skull and facial bones with distinctive facial characteristics (craniofacial abnormalities); ocular (eye) abnormalities; dental abnormalities; and/or short stature. Craniofacial features may include a short, broad head (brachycephaly) with an unusually prominent forehead and/or sides of the skull (frontal bossing); a small, underdeveloped lower jaw (micrognathia); a narrow, highly arched roof of the mouth (palate); and a thin, pinched, tapering nose (beaked nose). Ocular abnormalities may include clouding of the lenses of the eyes at birth (congenital cataracts); unusually small eyes (microphthalmia); and/or other abnormalities. Dental defects may include the presence of teeth at birth (natal teeth) and/or absence, malformation, or improper alignment of teeth. Hypotrichosis (sparse hair) is present in about 80 percent of affected individuals. Other features may include skin atrophy of the face, and/or hypoplasia (underdevelopment) of the clavicles and ribs. Intellectual disability is present in some cases (approximately 15 percent). In many cases, additional abnormalities are present. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Hallermann-Streiff syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the clavicle 90% Abnormality of the ribs 90% Alopecia 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia affecting the eye 90% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the skin 90% Cataract 90% Convex nasal ridge 90% Frontal bossing 90% Reduced bone mineral density 90% Short stature 90% Abnormality of hair texture 50% Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 50% Abnormality of the nares 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Advanced eruption of teeth 50% Glossoptosis 50% Hypoplasia of the zygomatic bone 50% Increased number of teeth 50% Narrow mouth 50% Recurrent fractures 50% Telecanthus 50% Visual impairment 50% Intellectual disability 15% Abdominal situs inversus 7.5% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 7.5% Choanal atresia 7.5% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Congestive heart failure 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Glaucoma 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Inflammatory abnormality of the eye 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Myopia 7.5% Nystagmus 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Short foot 7.5% Short palm 7.5% Strabismus 7.5% Tracheomalacia 7.5% Abnormality of the hand - Abnormality of the nasopharynx - Blue sclerae - Brachycephaly - Choreoathetosis - Chorioretinal coloboma - Decreased number of sternal ossification centers - Dental malocclusion - Dermal atrophy - Dolichocephaly - Dry skin - Fine hair - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures - High palate - Hyperactivity - Hyperlordosis - Hypotrichosis of the scalp - Iris coloboma - Joint hypermobility - Low-set ears - Malar flattening - Metaphyseal widening - Microphthalmia - Narrow nose - Narrow palate - Natal tooth - Obstructive sleep apnea - Optic nerve coloboma - Parietal bossing - Pectus excavatum - Platybasia - Proportionate short stature - Pulmonary hypertension - Recurrent pneumonia - Recurrent respiratory infections - Scoliosis - Selective tooth agenesis - Slender long bone - Small for gestational age - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - Sparse hair - Spina bifida - Sporadic - Telangiectasia - Thin calvarium - Thin ribs - Thin vermilion border - Underdeveloped nasal alae - Wormian bones - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1812,What are the treatments for Multifocal Motor Neuropathy ?,"Treatment for multifocal motor neuropathy varies. Some individuals experience only mild, modest symptoms and require no treatment. For others, treatment generally consists of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) or immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide."
1813,What causes Mowat-Wilson syndrome ?,"What causes Mowat-Wilson syndrome? Mowat-Wilson syndrome is caused by mutations in the ZEB2 (also known as ZFHX1B or SIP-1) gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays a critical role in the formation of many organs and tissues before birth. It is a transcription factor, which means that it attaches (binds) to specific regions of DNA and helps control the activity of particular genes. Researchers believe that ZEB2 protein is involved in the development of tissues that give rise to the nervous system, digestive tract, facial features, heart, and other organs. Mowat-Wilson syndrome almost always results from the loss of one working copy of the ZEB2 gene in each cell. In some cases, the entire gene is deleted. In other cases, mutations within the gene lead to the production of an abnormally short, nonfunctional version of the ZEB2 protein. A shortage of this protein disrupts the normal development of many organs and tissues, which causes the varied signs and symptoms of Mowat-Wilson syndrome."
1814,What to do for Hypothyroidism ?,"Experts recommend that people eat a balanced diet to obtain most nutrients. More information about diet and nutrition can be found on the National Agricultural Library website at www.nutrition.gov.
                
Dietary Supplements
                
Iodine is an essential mineral for the thyroid. However, people with autoimmune thyroid disease may be sensitive to harmful side effects from iodine. Taking iodine drops or eating foods containing large amounts of iodinesuch as seaweed, dulse, or kelpmay cause or worsen hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. More information about iodine can be found in the National Library of Medicine fact sheet Iodine in diet, available at www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/002421.htm.
                
Women need more iodine when they are pregnantabout 250 micrograms a day because the baby gets iodine from the mothers diet. In the United States, about 7 percent of pregnant women may not get enough iodine in their diet or through prenatal vitamins.3 Choosing iodized salt salt supplemented with iodineover plain salt and prenatal vitamins containing iodine will ensure this need is met.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of dietary supplements, such as iodine, with their health care provider. Tips for talking with health care providers are available through the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health."
1815,What are the symptoms of Age-related Macular Degeneration ?,"An early symptom of wet AMD is that straight lines appear wavy. If you notice this condition or other changes to your vision, contact your eye care professional at once. You need a comprehensive dilated eye exam."
1816,What are the treatments for tetrasomy 18p ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of tetrasomy 18p:  - Chromosome 18 Clinical Research Center, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio  - Genetic Testing Registry: Chromosome 18, tetrasomy 18p   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1817,Is Focal dermal hypoplasia inherited ?,"How is this condition inherited? Focal dermal hypoplasia is caused by mutations in the PORCN gene and is inherited in an X-linked dominant manner. Many cases of focal dermal hypoplasia result from a new mutation and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family For a woman affected with focal dermal hypoplasia, the theoretical risk of passing the mutation to each of her offspring is 50%; however, many males with this condition do not survive. In addition, there are cases in which a woman may have the focal dermal hypoplasia mutation in some but not all of her egg cells, a condition known as germline mosaicism. In this case the risk of passing along the mutation may be as high as 50% depending on the level of mosaicism. Males with focal dermal hypoplasia typically have the mutation in some but not all of their cells. The risk that a male with FDH will pass the condition on to his daughters may be as high as 100%; men do not pass this condition on to their sons. We recommend discussing specific concerns with a genetics professional, who can help you understand how this condition might be inherited in your family. Click on the following link for resources for finding a genetics professional."
1818,Do you have information about Household Products,"Summary : The products you use for cleaning, carpentry, auto repair, gardening, and many other household uses can contain ingredients that can harm you, your family, and the environment. These include        - Oven and drain cleaners    - Laundry powder    - Floor polish    - Paint thinners, strippers and removers    - Pesticides    - Grease and rust removers    - Motor oil and fuel additives    - Arts and craft supplies       Toxic substances in these products can cause harm if inhaled, swallowed, or absorbed through the skin. People respond to toxic substances in different ways. At high doses a toxic substance might cause birth defects or other serious problems, including brain damage or death.    To avoid problems, keep products in the containers they come in and use them exactly as the label says. Follow label directions or get medical help if you swallow, inhale or get them on your skin.     Environmental Protection Agency"
1819,What are the treatments for Lynch syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Lynch syndrome:  - American Medical Association and National Coalition for Health Professional Education in Genetics: Understand the Basics of Genetic Testing for Hereditary Colorectal Cancer  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Lynch Syndrome  - GeneFacts: Lynch Syndrome: Management  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer type 3  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer type 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer type 5  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer type 8  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lynch syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lynch syndrome I  - Genetic Testing Registry: Lynch syndrome II  - Genomics Education Programme (UK)  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Colon Cancer  - National Cancer Institute: Genetic Testing for Hereditary Cancer Syndromes   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1820,What are the symptoms of Arachnodactyly - intellectual disability - dysmorphism ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Arachnodactyly - intellectual disability - dysmorphism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Arachnodactyly - intellectual disability - dysmorphism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Arachnodactyly 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Decreased body weight 90% Long face 90% Long toe 90% Narrow face 90% Thin vermilion border 90% Trismus 90% Abnormality of calvarial morphology 50% Abnormality of immune system physiology 50% Abnormality of the genital system 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Hypertelorism 50% Hypertonia 50% Joint hypermobility 50% Long philtrum 50% Microcephaly 50% Narrow mouth 50% Pointed chin 50% Strabismus 50% Triphalangeal thumb 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1821,What are the treatments for Stargardt disease ?,"How might Stargardt disease be treated? At present there is no cure for Stargardt disease, and there is very little that can be done to slow its progression. Wearing sunglasses to protect the eyes from UVa, UVb and bright light may be of some benefit. Animal studies have shown that taking excessive amounts of vitamin A and beta carotene could promote the additional accumulation of lipofuscin, as well as a toxic vitamin A derivative called A2E; it is typically recommended that these be avoided by individuals with Stargardt disease. There are possible treatments for Stargardt disease that are being tested, including a gene therapy treatment, which has been given orphan drug status by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA, similar to the FDA). You can read more about this treatment by clicking here. There are also clinical trials involving embryonic stem cell treatments."
1822,What are the treatments for Friedreich ataxia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Friedreich ataxia:  - Friedreich's Ataxia Research Alliance: Clinical Care Guidelines  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Friedreich Ataxia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Friedreich ataxia 1  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Friedreich's Ataxia  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy  - National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke: Friedreich's Ataxia Fact Sheet   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1823,What is (are) Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia ?,"Florid cemento-osseous dysplasia is characterized by lesions in the upper and/or lower jaw that occur when normal bone is replaced with a mix of connective tissue and abnormal bone. It tends to affect middle aged women, particularly women of African American and Asian descent. The lesions often affect both sides of the jaw and are symmetrical. The number, size, and shape of the lesions vary. Occasionally the lesions expand and may cause discomfort, pain, or mild disfigurement. The radiographic appearance of the lesions are important for diagnosis."
1824,What are the symptoms of Familial dermographism ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Familial dermographism? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Familial dermographism. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal dominant inheritance - Dermatographic urticaria - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1825,What is (are) Hardikar syndrome ?,"Hardikar syndrome is a very rare multiple congenital malformation syndrome characterized by obstructive liver and kidney disease, intestinal malrotation, genitourinary abnormalities, cleft lip and palate, pigmentary retinopathy (breakdown of the light-sensing tissue at the back of the eye), and congenital heart defects. Only four cases have been reported in the medical literature. The cause of this condition remains unknown, although an overlap with Kabuki syndrome and Alagille syndrome have been debated."
1826,What is the outlook for Neurosarcoidosis ?,"The prognosis for patients with neurosarcoidosis varies. Approximately two-thirds of those with the condition will recover completely; the remainder will have a chronically progressing or on-and-off course of illness. Complications resulting from immunosuppressive treatments, such as cryptococcal and tuberculous meningitis, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, and inclusion body myositis, may be fatal for a small percentage of individuals."
1827,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Familial Periodic Paralyses ?,"The NINDS conducts and supports research on neuromuscular disorders such as the familial periodic paralyses. These studies are aimed at increasing knowledge about these disorders and finding ways to prevent, treat, and cure them."
1828,What is (are) multiple sulfatase deficiency ?,"Multiple sulfatase deficiency is a condition that mainly affects the brain, skin, and skeleton. Because the signs and symptoms of multiple sulfatase deficiency vary widely, researchers have split the condition into three types: neonatal, late-infantile, and juvenile.  The neonatal type is the most severe form, with signs and symptoms appearing soon after birth. Affected individuals have deterioration of tissue in the nervous system (leukodystrophy), which can contribute to movement problems, seizures, developmental delay, and slow growth. They also have dry, scaly skin (ichthyosis) and excess hair growth (hypertrichosis). Skeletal abnormalities can include abnormal side-to-side curvature of the spine (scoliosis), joint stiffness, and dysostosis multiplex, which refers to a specific pattern of skeletal abnormalities seen on x-ray. Individuals with the neonatal type typically have facial features that can be described as ""coarse."" Affected individuals may also have hearing loss, heart malformations, and an enlarged liver and spleen (hepatosplenomegaly). Many of the signs and symptoms of neonatal multiple sulfatase deficiency worsen over time.  The late-infantile type is the most common form of multiple sulfatase deficiency. It is characterized by normal cognitive development in early childhood followed by a progressive loss of mental abilities and movement (psychomotor regression) due to leukodystrophy or other brain abnormalities. Individuals with this form of the condition do not have as many features as those with the neonatal type, but they often have ichthyosis, skeletal abnormalities, and coarse facial features.  The juvenile type is the rarest form of multiple sulfatase deficiency. Signs and symptoms of the juvenile type appear in mid- to late childhood. Affected individuals have normal early cognitive development but then experience psychomotor regression; however, the regression in the juvenile type usually occurs at a slower rate than in the late-infantile type. Ichthyosis is also common in the juvenile type of multiple sulfatase deficiency.  Life expectancy is shortened in individuals with all types of multiple sulfatase deficiency. Typically, affected individuals survive only a few years after the signs and symptoms of the condition appear, but life expectancy varies depending on the severity of the condition and how quickly the neurological problems worsen."
1829,What causes Rotor syndrome ?,"What causes Rotor syndrome? Rotor syndrome is an inherited disorder caused by having mutations in both the SLCO1B1 and SLCO1B3 genes. These genes provide instructions for making proteins that are found in liver cells, where they transport bilirubin and other substances from the blood into the liver so that they can be cleared from the body. In the liver, bilirubin is dissolved in a digestive fluid called bile, and then excreted from the body. The mutations in the SLCO1B1 and SLCO1B3 genes that cause Rotor syndrome either prevent the production of the transporting proteins, or prevent them from functioning properly. When this occurs, bilirubin is not effectively removed from the body and builds up, leading to jaundice."
1830,What are the treatments for ichthyosis with confetti ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of ichthyosis with confetti:  - Foundation for Ichthyosis and Related Skin Types (FIRST): Skin Care Tips  - Foundation for Ichthyosis and Related Skin Types (FIRST): Treating Ichthyosis   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1831,What are the genetic changes related to congenital fibrosis of the extraocular muscles ?,"CFEOM1 and rare cases of CFEOM3 result from mutations in the KIF21A gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called a kinesin, which is essential for the transport of materials within cells. Researchers believe that this protein plays an important role in the normal development and function of nerves in the head and face. In particular, this protein plays a critical role in the development of a particular branch of cranial nerve III, which emerges from the brain and controls muscles that raise the eyes and eyelids. Mutations in the KIF21A gene likely alter the protein's ability to transport materials within nerve cells, preventing the normal development of these cranial nerves and the extraocular muscles they control. Abnormal function of the extraocular muscles leads to restricted eye movement and related problems with vision.  Mutations in the PHOX2A gene cause CFEOM2. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that is found in the developing nervous system. Studies suggest that the PHOX2A protein plays a critical role in the development of cranial nerves III and IV, which are necessary for normal eye movement. Mutations likely eliminate the function of the PHOX2A protein, which prevents the normal development of these cranial nerves and the extraocular muscles they control.  In most cases of CFEOM3, the genetic cause of the condition is unknown. Studies suggest that a gene associated with CFEOM3 may be located near one end of chromosome 16. The gene associated with Tukel syndrome has not been identified either, although researchers think that it may be located near one end of chromosome 21."
1832,Is piebaldism inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
1833,Is 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria inherited ?,"D-2-HGA type I, L-2-HGA, and combined D,L-2-HGA all have an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  D-2-HGA type II is considered an autosomal dominant disorder because one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. The disorder typically results from a new mutation in the IDH2 gene and occurs in people with no history of the condition in their family."
1834,What are the treatments for WaterhouseFriderichsen syndrome ?,How might Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome be treated? Treatment may include antibiotics and glucocorticoids.  Other treatment is symptomatic and supportive.
1835,How to diagnose Renal oncocytoma ?,"How is renal oncocytoma diagnosed? A diagnosis of renal oncocytoma is often suspected based on imaging studies such as computed tomography (CT scan) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI scan). However, it can be difficult to differentiate a renal oncocytoma from renal cell carcinoma based on imaging studies alone. Although researchers are currently studying several new techniques for the diagnosis of renal oncocytoma, a biopsy and surgery are typically necessary to confirm the diagnosis. Is genetic testing available for renal oncocytoma? Genetic testing is not available for many people with renal oncocytoma since most of these tumors occur sporadically (by chance) and are not caused by a genetic mutation. However, genetic testing is an option for people with an inherited condition that predisposes to renal oncocytoma such as tuberous sclerosis complex and Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome. Carrier testing for at-risk relatives and prenatal testing are possible if the disease-causing mutation in the family is known. The Genetic Testing Registry (GTR) is a centralized online resource for information about genetic tests. It provides a list of laboratories performing genetic testing for tuberous sclerosis complex and Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome. The intended audience for the GTR is health care providers and researchers. Patients and consumers with specific questions about a genetic test should contact a health care provider or a genetics professional."
1836,What are the treatments for autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Autosomal Dominant Hyper IgE Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Hyperimmunoglobulin E syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1837,What are the treatments for leptin receptor deficiency ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of leptin receptor deficiency:  - Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development: How Are Obesity and Overweight Diagnosed?  - Genetic Testing Registry: Leptin receptor deficiency  - Genetics of Obesity Study  - National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute: How Are Overweight and Obesity Treated?   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1838,What is (are) periventricular heterotopia ?,"Periventricular heterotopia is a condition in which nerve cells (neurons) do not migrate properly during the early development of the fetal brain, from about the 6th week to the 24th week of pregnancy. Heterotopia means ""out of place."" In normal brain development, neurons form in the periventricular region, located around fluid-filled cavities (ventricles) near the center of the brain. The neurons then migrate outward to form the exterior of the brain (cerebral cortex) in six onion-like layers. In periventricular heterotopia, some neurons fail to migrate to their proper position and form clumps around the ventricles.  Periventricular heterotopia usually becomes evident when seizures first appear, often during the teenage years. The nodules around the ventricles are then typically discovered when magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies are done. Affected individuals usually have normal intelligence, although some have mild intellectual disability. Difficulty with reading and spelling (dyslexia) has been reported in some people with periventricular heterotopia.  Less commonly, individuals with periventricular heterotopia may have more severe brain malformations, small head size (microcephaly), developmental delays, recurrent infections, blood vessel abnormalities, or other problems. Periventricular heterotopia may also occur in association with other conditions such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, which results in extremely flexible joints, skin that stretches easily, and fragile blood vessels."
1839,What is (are) Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis ?,"Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis is a skeletal dysplasia characterized by short stature and an abnormality of the wrist bones called Madelung deformity. Short stature is present from birth due to shortening of the long bones in the legs. Madelung deformity typically develops during mid-to-late childhood and may progress during puberty. People with this condition often experience pain in their wrists or arms. The severity of Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis varies among affected individuals, although the signs and symptoms of this condition are generally more severe in females. Other features of Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis can include increased muscle size, bowing of a bone in the leg called the tibia, elbow abnormalities, scoliosis, and high-arched palate. Intelligence is not affected by this condition. Most cases of Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis are caused by mutations in or near the SHOX gene. The cause of the disorder remains unknown in those cases not related to the SHOX gene. Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis follows a pseudoautosomal dominant pattern of inheritance."
1840,What are the genetic changes related to neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy ?,"Mutations in the PNPLA2 gene cause neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy. The PNPLA2 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL). The ATGL enzyme plays a role in breaking down fats called triglycerides. Triglycerides are an important source of stored energy in cells. These fats must be broken down into simpler molecules called fatty acids before they can be used for energy.  PNPLA2 gene mutations impair the ATGL enzyme's ability to break down triglycerides. These triglycerides then accumulate in muscle and tissues throughout the body, resulting in the signs and symptoms of neutral lipid storage disease with myopathy."
1841,How many people are affected by Poland syndrome ?,"Poland syndrome has been estimated to occur in 1 in 20,000 newborns. For unknown reasons, this disorder occurs more than twice as often in males than in females. Poland syndrome may be underdiagnosed because mild cases without hand involvement may never come to medical attention."
1842,What are the treatments for Wagner syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Wagner syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: VCAN-Related Vitreoretinopathy  - Genetic Testing Registry: Wagner syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1843,What is (are) Dengue ?,"Dengue is an infection caused by a virus. You can get it if an infected mosquito bites you. Dengue does not spread from person to person. It is common in warm, wet areas of the world. Outbreaks occur in the rainy season. Dengue is rare in the United States.     Symptoms include a high fever, headaches, joint and muscle pain, vomiting, and a rash. In some cases, dengue turns into dengue hemorrhagic fever, which causes bleeding from your nose, gums, or under your skin. It can also become dengue shock syndrome, which causes massive bleeding and shock. These forms of dengue are life-threatening.    There is no specific treatment. Most people with dengue recover within 2 weeks. Until then, drinking lots of fluids, resting and taking non-aspirin fever-reducing medicines might help. People with the more severe forms of dengue usually need to go to the hospital and get fluids.    To lower your risk when traveling to areas where dengue is found       - Wear insect repellent with DEET     - Wear clothes that cover your arms, legs and feet     - Close unscreened doors and windows        NIH: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases"
1844,What are the treatments for junctional epidermolysis bullosa ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of junctional epidermolysis bullosa:  - Epidermolysis Bullosa Center, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Junctional Epidermolysis Bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Adult junctional epidermolysis bullosa  - Genetic Testing Registry: Epidermolysis bullosa, junctional  - Genetic Testing Registry: Junctional epidermolysis bullosa gravis of Herlitz  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Epidermolysis Bullosa   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1845,What are the treatments for Pseudopelade of Brocq ?,"Is there treatment or a cure for pseudopelade of Brocq? Neither an effective treatment nor cure has been identified for pseudopelade of Brocq.  Unfortunately, even when treatment relieves the symptoms and signs, the progression of hair loss may continue. The choice of treatment prescribed varies from person to person and depends mainly on the activity, extent of the disease and patient's tolerance to the treatment. Various forms of corticosteroids have been tried, including injections or skin lotions or creams. Surgery such as hair transplant or scalp reduction might be considered in patients whose condition has remained stable for two or more years."
1846,How many people are affected by congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency ?,"CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency accounts for 5 to 8 percent of all cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia. It is estimated that CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency occurs in 1 in 100,000 to 200,000 newborns. This condition is more common in Moroccan Jews living in Israel, occurring in approximately 1 in 5,000 to 7,000 newborns. The classic form of CAH due to 11-beta-hydroxylase deficiency appears to be much more common than the non-classic form."
1847,"What are the symptoms of Progressive external ophthalmoplegia, autosomal recessive 1 ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Progressive external ophthalmoplegia, autosomal recessive 1 ? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Progressive external ophthalmoplegia, autosomal recessive 1 . If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Adult onset 75% Cardiomyopathy 7.5% Dyschromatopsia 5% Optic atrophy 5% Visual impairment 5% Areflexia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bradykinesia - Decreased activity of cytochrome C oxidase in muscle tissue - Depression - Distal muscle weakness - Dysarthria - Dysphagia - Dysphonia - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - EMG: myopathic abnormalities - Emotional lability - Exercise intolerance - Facial palsy - Gait ataxia - Generalized amyotrophy - Hyporeflexia - Impaired distal proprioception - Impaired distal vibration sensation - Increased CSF protein - Increased variability in muscle fiber diameter - Limb ataxia - Mildly elevated creatine phosphokinase - Mitochondrial myopathy - Mitral regurgitation - Mitral valve prolapse - Multiple mitochondrial DNA deletions - Muscle fiber necrosis - Parkinsonism - Pes cavus - Phenotypic variability - Positive Romberg sign - Progressive external ophthalmoplegia - Proximal muscle weakness - Ptosis - Ragged-red muscle fibers - Respiratory insufficiency due to muscle weakness - Rigidity - Sensory ataxic neuropathy - Sensory axonal neuropathy - Steppage gait - Subsarcolemmal accumulations of abnormally shaped mitochondria - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1848,What are the symptoms of Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 3 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 3? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Multiple epiphyseal dysplasia 3. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the hip joint - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Delayed epiphyseal ossification - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Epiphyseal dysplasia - Irregular epiphyses - Mild short stature - Osteoarthritis - Proximal muscle weakness - Short metacarpal - Small epiphyses - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1849,What are the treatments for Clouston syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Clouston syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Hidrotic Ectodermal Dysplasia 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hidrotic ectodermal dysplasia syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1850,How many people are affected by myoclonic epilepsy myopathy sensory ataxia ?,The prevalence of myoclonic epilepsy myopathy sensory ataxia is unknown.
1851,What are the symptoms of Chondrosarcoma ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Chondrosarcoma? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Chondrosarcoma. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Chondrosarcoma - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1852,What are the genetic changes related to frontometaphyseal dysplasia ?,"Mutations in the FLNA gene cause frontometaphyseal dysplasia.  The FLNA gene provides instructions for producing the protein filamin A, which helps build the network of protein filaments (cytoskeleton) that gives structure to cells and allows them to change shape and move. Filamin A binds to another protein called actin, and helps the actin to form the branching network of filaments that make up the cytoskeleton. Filamin A also links actin to many other proteins to perform various functions within the cell.  A small number of mutations in the FLNA gene have been identified in people with frontometaphyseal dysplasia. These mutations are described as ""gain-of-function"" because they appear to enhance the activity of the filamin A protein or give the protein a new, atypical function. Researchers believe that the mutations may change the way the filamin A protein helps regulate processes involved in skeletal development, but it is not known how changes in the protein relate to the specific signs and symptoms of frontometaphyseal dysplasia."
1853,Is congenital myasthenic syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Rarely, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In some cases, an affected person inherits the mutation from one affected parent. Other cases result from new mutations in the gene and occur in people with no history of the disorder in their family."
1854,What are the treatments for familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of familial lipoprotein lipase deficiency:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Familial Lipoprotein Lipase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Hyperlipoproteinemia, type I  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Chylomicronemia Syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Familial Lipoprotein Lipase Deficiency   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1855,Do you have information about Veterans and Military Health,"Summary : Military service members and veterans face some different health issues than civilians. During combat, the main health concerns are life-threatening injuries. These include       - Shrapnel and gunshot wounds    - Lost limbs    - Head and brain injuries       There may also be a risk of health problems from exposure to environmental hazards, such as contaminated water, chemicals, and infections.     Being in combat and being separated from your family can be stressful. The stress can put service members and veterans at risk for mental health problems. These include anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and substance abuse. Suicide can also be a concern."
1856,What is (are) autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness ?,"Autosomal dominant congenital stationary night blindness is a disorder of the retina, which is the specialized tissue at the back of the eye that detects light and color. People with this condition typically have difficulty seeing and distinguishing objects in low light (night blindness). For example, they are not able to identify road signs at night and some people cannot see stars in the night sky. Affected individuals have normal daytime vision and typically do not have other vision problems related to this disorder.  The night blindness associated with this condition is congenital, which means it is present from birth. This vision impairment tends to remain stable (stationary); it does not worsen over time."
1857,How many people are affected by mucopolysaccharidosis type VII ?,"The exact incidence of MPS VII is unknown, although it is estimated to occur in 1 in 250,000 newborns. It is one of the rarest types of mucopolysaccharidosis."
1858,How many people are affected by Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome ?,"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is rare and only occurs in about one in every 1 million people.1 Although anyone can get Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, the disease is more common among men 30 to 50 years old. A child who has a parent with MEN1 is also at increased risk for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.2"
1859,What are the treatments for very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of VLCAD deficiency:  - Baby's First Test  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Very Long-Chain Acyl-Coenzyme A Dehydrogenase Deficiency  - Genetic Testing Registry: Very long chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Newborn Screening Tests   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1860,Do you have information about Exercise for Children,"Summary : Like adults, kids need exercise. Most children need at least an hour of physical activity every day. Regular exercise helps children       - Feel less stressed     - Feel better about themselves    - Feel more ready to learn in school     - Keep a healthy weight     - Build and keep healthy bones, muscles and joints     - Sleep better at night       As kids spend more time watching TV, they spend less time running and playing. Parents should limit TV, video game and computer time. Parents can set a good example by being active themselves. Exercising together can be fun for everyone. Competitive sports can help kids stay fit. Walking or biking to school, dancing, bowling and yoga are some other ways for kids to get exercise."
1861,What is (are) Bronchiectasis ?,"Bronchiectasis (brong-ke-EK-ta-sis) is a condition in which damage to the airways causes them to widen and become flabby and scarred. The airways are tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs.
                
Bronchiectasis usually is the result of an infection or other condition that injures the walls of your airways or prevents the airways from clearing mucus. Mucus is a slimy substance that the airways produce to help remove inhaled dust, bacteria, and other small particles.
                
In bronchiectasis, your airways slowly lose their ability to clear out mucus. When mucus can't be cleared, it builds up and creates an environment in which bacteria can grow. This leads to repeated, serious lung infections.
                
Each infection causes more damage to your airways. Over time, the airways lose their ability to move air in and out. This can prevent enough oxygen from reaching your vital organs.
                
Bronchiectasis can lead to serious health problems, such as respiratory failure, atelectasis (at-eh-LEK-tah-sis), and heart failure.
                
Bronchiectasis
                

                
Overview
                
Bronchiectasis can affect just one section of one of your lungs or many sections of both lungs.
                
The initial lung damage that leads to bronchiectasis often begins in childhood. However, symptoms may not occur until months or even years after you start having repeated lung infections.
                
In the United States, common childhood infectionssuch as whooping cough and measlesused to cause many cases of bronchiectasis. However, these causes are now less common because of vaccines and antibiotics.
                
Now bronchiectasis usually is due to a medical condition that injures the airway walls or prevents the airways from clearing mucus. Examples of such conditions include cystic fibrosis and primary ciliary (SIL-e-ar-e) dyskinesia (dis-kih-NE-ze-ah), or PCD.
                
Bronchiectasis that affects only one part of the lung may be caused by a blockage rather than a medical condition.
                
Bronchiectasis can be congenital (kon-JEN-ih-tal) or acquired. Congenital bronchiectasis affects infants and children. It's the result of a problem with how the lungs form in a fetus.
                
Acquired bronchiectasis occurs as a result of another condition or factor. This type of bronchiectasis can affect adults and older children. Acquired bronchiectasis is more common than the congenital type.
                
Outlook
                
Currently, bronchiectasis has no cure. However, with proper care, most people who have it can enjoy a good quality of life.
                
Early diagnosis and treatment of bronchiectasis are important. The sooner your doctor starts treating bronchiectasis and any underlying conditions, the better your chances of preventing further lung damage."
1862,What is (are) prekallikrein deficiency ?,"Prekallikrein deficiency is a blood condition that usually causes no health problems. In people with this condition, blood tests show a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (PTT), a result that is typically associated with bleeding problems; however, bleeding problems generally do not occur in prekallikrein deficiency. The condition is usually discovered when blood tests are done for other reasons.  A few people with prekallikrein deficiency have experienced health problems related to blood clotting such as heart attack, stroke, a clot in the deep veins of the arms or legs (deep vein thrombosis), nosebleeds, or excessive bleeding after surgery. However, these are common problems in the general population, and most affected individuals have other risk factors for developing them, so it is unclear whether their occurrence is related to prekallikrein deficiency."
1863,What are the treatments for Leukonychia totalis ?,"How might leukonychia totalis be treated? There is no universally successful treatment for the whitening of the nails in people with leukonychia totalis. However, if the condition is known to have an underlying cause, treating that cause (when possible) may improve the condition."
1864,Is D-bifunctional protein deficiency inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1865,What are the treatments for systemic lupus erythematosus ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of systemic lupus erythematosus:  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Antinuclear Antibody Panel   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1866,What is (are) Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy ?,"Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy is a type of nervous system disease that affects the brachial plexus. Common signs and symptoms include episodes of severe pain and muscle wasting in one or both shoulders and arms.  Attacks may be spontaneous or triggered (e.g., by exercise, childbirth, surgery, infection etc.).  Secondary complications, such as decreased sensation, abnormal sensations (e.g., numbness and tingling), chronic pain, and impaired movement may develop overtime. Affected members in some families may share additional distinct physical and facial characteristics. Hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy can be caused by mutations in the SEPT9 gene.  It is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion."
1867,What are the treatments for Sclerosing mesenteritis ?,"How might sclerosing mesenteritis be treated? Treatment for sclerosing mesenteritis is most often based on the stage of the disease. In the early stage when fat necrosis predominates, many physicians tend not to treat because the disease process may regress spontaneously. When chronic inflammation becomes a prominent feature but fibrosis is not yet fully developed, medical treatment with corticosteroids, colchicine, immunosuppressants, or orally administered progesterone may be beneficial in the prevention of disease progression. These medications are only given for a short period since they can cause serious side effects. Some studies have shown that patients with sclerosing mesenteritis may benefit from a drug combination of tamoxifen and prednisone. When fibrosis becomes extensive, especially when the disease presents as a large fibrotic mass with bowel obstruction, surgical interventions may be necessary."
1868,What are the symptoms of Haim-Munk syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Haim-Munk syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Haim-Munk syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fingernails 90% Abnormality of the toenails 90% Arachnodactyly 90% Gingival overgrowth 90% Osteolysis 90% Palmoplantar keratoderma 90% Periodontitis 90% Pes planus 90% Abnormality of the distal phalanx of finger 50% Skin ulcer 50% Arthritis 7.5% Paresthesia 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital palmoplantar keratosis - Osteolytic defects of the phalanges of the hand - Recurrent bacterial skin infections - Severe periodontitis - Tapering pointed ends of distal finger phalanges - Thick nail - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1869,How many people are affected by Brody myopathy ?,"Brody myopathy is a rare condition, although its exact prevalence is unknown."
1870,How many people are affected by Horner syndrome ?,"About 1 in 6,250 babies are born with Horner syndrome. The incidence of Horner syndrome that appears later is unknown, but it is considered an uncommon disorder."
1871,What are the treatments for Paget's Disease of Bone ?,"The Food and Drug Administration has approved several medications that can stop or slow down the progression of the disease and reduce pain and other symptoms. These medications fall into two categories: bisphosphonates and calcitonin. Doctors most often prescribe one of the four strongest bisphosphonates, which are risedronate, alendronate, pamidronate, and zoledronic acid."
1872,What is the outlook for Spinal Cord Infarction ?,Recovery depends upon how quickly treatment is received and how severely the body is compromised. Paralysis may persist for many weeks or be permanent. Most individuals have a good chance of recovery.
1873,Is Bloom syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1874,What is the outlook for Electrocardiogram ?,"After an electrocardiogram (EKG), the nurse or technician will remove the electrodes (soft patches) from your skin. You may develop a rash or redness where the EKG patches were attached. This mild rash often goes away without treatment.
                
You usually can go back to your normal daily routine after an EKG."
1875,What are the symptoms of Osteochondritis dissecans ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of osteochondritis dissecans? The signs and symptoms of osteochondritis dissecans vary from person to person. If the piece of cartilage and bone remain close to where they detached, they may not cause any symptoms. However, affected people may experience the following if the cartilage and bone travel into the joint space: Pain, swelling and/or tenderness Joint popping Joint weakness Decreased range of motion Although osteochondritis dissecans can develop in any joint of the body, the knee, ankle and elbow are most commonly affected. Most people only develop the condition in a single joint."
1876,What is (are) Ischemic Stroke ?,"A stroke is a medical emergency. There are two types - ischemic and hemorrhagic. Ischemic stroke is the most common type. It is usually caused by a blood clot that blocks or plugs a blood vessel in the brain. This keeps blood from flowing to the brain. Within minutes, brain cells begin to die. Another cause is stenosis, or narrowing of the artery. This can happen because of atherosclerosis, a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) occur when the blood supply to the brain is interrupted briefly. Having a TIA can mean you are at risk for having a more serious stroke.    Symptoms of stroke are       - Sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg (especially on one side of the body)    - Sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding speech    - Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes    - Sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination    - Sudden severe headache with no known cause       It is important to treat strokes as quickly as possible. Blood thinners may be used to stop a stroke while it is happening by quickly dissolving the blood clot. Post-stroke rehabilitation can help people overcome disabilities caused by stroke damage.    NIH: National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke"
1877,How many people are affected by Niemann-Pick disease ?,"Niemann-Pick disease types A and B is estimated to affect 1 in 250,000 individuals. Niemann-Pick disease type A occurs more frequently among individuals of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish descent than in the general population. The incidence within the Ashkenazi population is approximately 1 in 40,000 individuals.  Combined, Niemann-Pick disease types C1 and C2 are estimated to affect 1 in 150,000 individuals; however, type C1 is by far the more common type, accounting for 95 percent of cases. The disease occurs more frequently in people of French-Acadian descent in Nova Scotia. In Nova Scotia, a population of affected French-Acadians were previously designated as having Niemann-Pick disease type D, however, it was shown that these individuals have mutations in the gene associated with Niemann-Pick disease type C1."
1878,Who is at risk for I Can Lower My Risk for Type 2 Diabetes: A Guide for American Indians? ?,"- My mother had diabetes when I was born.   - I am overweight.  - I have a parent, brother, or sister with diabetes.  - My family background is American Indian.  - I have had gestational diabetes, or I gave birth to at least one baby weighing more than 9 pounds.  - My blood pressure is 140/90 mmHg or higher, or I have been told that I have high blood pressure.  - My cholesterol levels are higher than normal. My HDL cholesterol""good"" cholesterolis below 35 mg/dL, or my triglyceride level is above 250 mg/dL.  - I am fairly inactive. I exercise fewer than three times a week."
1879,What is (are) What I need to know about Crohn's Disease ?,"Crohn's disease is a disease that causes inflammation,* or swelling, and irritation of any part of the digestive tractalso called the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The part most commonly affected is the end part of the small intestine, called the ileum.
                
*See the Pronunciation Guide for tips on how to say the words in bold type.
                
Crohns disease is one of two main forms of diseases of the GI tract named inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The other form, called ulcerative colitis, affects the large intestine, which includes the colon and the rectumthe lower end of the large intestine, leading to the anus.
                
With Crohns disease, chronicor long lastinginflammation may cause scar tissue to form in the lining of the intestine. When scar tissue builds up, the passage can become narrow, causing food and stool to move through the GI tract more slowlywhich can lead to pain, cramps, and diarrhea."
1880,How to diagnose Parasites - Baylisascaris infection ?,"If you suspect you have been infected, consult your health care provider immediately. Be sure to tell your health care provider if you have recently been exposed to raccoons or their feces.
    
Diagnosis is difficult because symptoms depend on the number of infecting larvae and location in the body. Ocular larva migrans, when the larvae migrate to the eye, can cause sensitivity to light, inflammation of the eye, and blindness. Symptoms of visceral larva migrans, when the larvae travel to organs, depend on which organs are affected. For example, an invasion of the liver may cause hepatomegaly (inflammation and enlargement of the liver), while an invasion of the lung may cause pulmonary symptoms such as cough or chest pain. Larvae rarely end up in the nervous system but the most severe cases are neural larva migrans, when the larvae migrate into the brain and cause it to swell (encephalitis). There is no commercially available test for Baylisascaris infection. A health care provider may test blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and tissue to determine if an individual is infected. Eye examinations may reveal a migrating larva or lesions and are often the most significant clue to infection with Baylisascaris.
    
Diagnosis often is made by ruling out other infections that cause similar symptoms. Information on diagnosis and testing can be obtained through your local or state health department or CDC.
    
More on: Resources for Health Professionals: Diagnosis"
1881,What are the genetic changes related to malignant hyperthermia ?,"Variations of the CACNA1S and RYR1 genes increase the risk of developing malignant hyperthermia.  Researchers have described at least six forms of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility, which are caused by mutations in different genes. Mutations in the RYR1 gene are responsible for a form of the condition known as MHS1. These mutations account for most cases of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility. Another form of the condition, MHS5, results from mutations in the CACNA1S gene. These mutations are less common, causing less than 1 percent of all cases of malignant hyperthermia susceptibility.  The RYR1 and CACNA1S genes provide instructions for making proteins that play essential roles in muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles). For the body to move normally, these muscles must tense (contract) and relax in a coordinated way. Muscle contractions are triggered by the flow of certain charged atoms (ions) into muscle cells. The proteins produced from the RYR1 and CACNA1S genes are involved in the movement of calcium ions within muscle cells. In response to certain signals, the CACNA1S protein helps activate the RYR1 channel, which releases stored calcium ions within muscle cells. The resulting increase in calcium ion concentration inside muscle cells stimulates muscle fibers to contract.  Mutations in the RYR1 or CACNA1S gene cause the RYR1 channel to open more easily and close more slowly in response to certain drugs. As a result, large amounts of calcium ions are released from storage within muscle cells. An overabundance of available calcium ions causes skeletal muscles to contract abnormally, which leads to muscle rigidity in people with malignant hyperthermia. An increase in calcium ion concentration within muscle cells also activates processes that generate heat (leading to increased body temperature) and produce excess acid (leading to acidosis).  The genetic causes of several other types of malignant hyperthermia (MHS2, MHS4, and MHS6) are still under study. A form of the condition known as MHS3 has been linked to the CACNA2D1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays an essential role in activating the RYR1 channel to release calcium ions into muscle cells. Although this gene is thought to be related to malignant hyperthermia in a few families, no causative mutations have been identified."
1882,What is (are) Trichotillomania ?,"Trichotillomania is an impulse control disorder characterized by an overwhelming urge to repeatedly pull out one's own hair (usually on the scalp), resulting in hair loss (alopecia). The eyelashes, eyebrows, and beard can also be affected. Many affected individuals feel extreme tension when they feel an impulse, followed by relief, gratification or pleasure afterwards. The condition may be mild and manageable, or severe and debilitating. Some individuals chew or swallow the hair they pull out (trichophagy), which can result in gastrointestinal problems. The exact cause of the condition is unknown. Treatment typically involves psychotherapy (including cognitive behavior therapy) and/or drug therapy, but these are not always effective."
1883,What is (are) Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy syndrome ?,"Mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy (MNGIE) syndrome is a condition that particularly affects the digestive system and nervous system. Signs and symptoms of this condition most often begin by age 20 and worsen with time. Almost all people with MNGIE have gastrointestinal dysmotility, in which the muscles and nerves of the digestive system do not move food through the digestive tract efficiently. Affected individuals also experience peripheral neuropathy, droopy eyelids (ptosis), weakness of the muscles that control eye movement (ophthalmoplegia), and hearing loss. Leukoencephalopathy, which is the deterioration of a type of brain tissue known as white matter, is a hallmark of MNGIE; however it does not usually cause symptoms in people with this disorder. Mutations in the TYMP gene cause MNGIE, and this condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern."
1884,"How many people are affected by blepharophimosis, ptosis, and epicanthus inversus syndrome ?",The prevalence of BPES is unknown.
1885,What is (are) Hearing Aids ?,"A hearing aid is a small electronic device that you wear in or behind your ear. It makes some sounds louder. A hearing aid can help people hear more in both quiet and noisy situations.     Hearing aids help people who have hearing loss from damage to the small sensory cells in the inner ear. The damage can occur as a result of disease, aging, or injury from noise or certain medicines. Only about one out of five people who would benefit from a hearing aid actually uses one. If you think a hearing aid could help you, visit your doctor.     There are different kinds of hearing aids. They differ by size, their placement on or inside the ear, and how much they amplify sound. The hearing aid that will work best for you depends on what kind of hearing loss you have, and how severe it is.    NIH: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders"
1886,How to diagnose Mnire's disease ?,"How is Mnire's disease diagnosed? The hallmark of Mnire's disease is the fluctuation, waxing and waning of symptoms.  Proper diagnosis of Mnire's disease entails several procedures, including a medical history interview; a physical examination; hearing and balance tests; and medical imaging with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Accurate measurement and characterization of hearing loss are of critical importance in the diagnosis of Mnire's disease. Through the use of several types of hearing tests, physicians can characterize hearing loss as being sensory (arising from the inner ear) or neural (arising from the hearing nerve). Recording the auditory brain stem response, which measures electrical activity in the hearing nerve and brain stem, is useful in differentiating between these two types of hearing loss. Electrocochleography, recording the electrical activity of the inner ear in response to sound, helps confirm the diagnosis. To test the vestibular or balance system, physicians irrigate the ears with warm and cool water or air. This procedure, known as caloric testing, results in nystagmus, rapid eye movements that can help a physician analyze a balance disorder. Since tumor growth can produce symptoms similar to Mnire's disease, an MRI is a useful test to determine whether a tumor is causing the patient's vertigo and hearing loss."
1887,What are the symptoms of Cerebral gigantism jaw cysts ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Cerebral gigantism jaw cysts? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cerebral gigantism jaw cysts. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Accelerated skeletal maturation 90% Bone cyst 90% Cerebral calcification 90% EEG abnormality 90% Macrocephaly 90% Tall stature 90% Incoordination 50% The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1888,What are the genetic changes related to acatalasemia ?,"Mutations in the CAT gene can cause acatalasemia. This gene provides instructions for making the enzyme catalase, which breaks down hydrogen peroxide molecules into oxygen and water. Hydrogen peroxide is produced through chemical reactions within cells. At low levels, it is involved in several chemical signaling pathways, but at high levels it is toxic to cells. If hydrogen peroxide is not broken down by catalase, additional reactions convert it into compounds called reactive oxygen species that can damage DNA, proteins, and cell membranes.  Mutations in the CAT gene greatly reduce the activity of catalase. A shortage of this enzyme can allow hydrogen peroxide to build up to toxic levels in certain cells. For example, hydrogen peroxide produced by bacteria in the mouth may accumulate in and damage soft tissues, leading to mouth ulcers and gangrene. A buildup of hydrogen peroxide may also damage beta cells of the pancreas, which release a hormone called insulin that helps control blood sugar. Malfunctioning beta cells are thought to underlie the increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus in people with acatalasemia. It is unclear why some people have no health problems associated with a loss of catalase activity.  Many people with reduced catalase activity do not have an identified mutation in the CAT gene; in these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown. Researchers believe that other genetic and environmental factors can also influence the activity of catalase."
1889,Is hypochondroplasia inherited ?,"Hypochondroplasia is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most people with hypochondroplasia have average-size parents; these cases result from a new mutation in the FGFR3 gene. In the remaining cases, people with hypochondroplasia have inherited an altered FGFR3 gene from one or two affected parents. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene typically have more severe problems with bone growth than those who inherit a single FGFR3 mutation."
1890,What are the symptoms of X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal hair quantity 90% Delayed eruption of teeth 90% Depressed nasal ridge 90% Hypohidrosis 90% Microdontia 90% Frontal bossing 50% Anterior hypopituitarism 7.5% Hypertension 7.5% Short distal phalanx of finger 7.5% Type I diabetes mellitus 7.5% Abnormality of oral mucosa - Absent eyebrow - Absent nipple - Anhidrosis - Aplasia/Hypoplastia of the eccrine sweat glands - Brittle hair - Concave nail - Conical tooth - Depressed nasal bridge - Dry skin - Dysphonia - Eczema - Everted upper lip vermilion - Fever - Heat intolerance - Heterogeneous - Hoarse voice - Hypodontia - Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia - Hypoplasia of the maxilla - Hypoplastic nipples - Hypoplastic-absent sebaceous glands - Hypotrichosis - Periorbital hyperpigmentation - Periorbital wrinkles - Prominent supraorbital ridges - Respiratory difficulties - Short chin - Short nose - Soft skin - Sparse eyebrow - Sparse eyelashes - Taurodontia - Thick vermilion border - Thin skin - Underdeveloped nasal alae - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1891,What is (are) Homocystinuria ?,"Homocystinuria is an inherited disorder in which the body is unable to process certain building blocks of proteins (amino acids) properly. The most common form, called cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency, is characterized by dislocation of the lens in the eye, an increased risk of abnormal blood clots, skeletal abnormalities, and sometimes problems with development and learning. Less common forms are caused by a lack of other enzymes. These disorders can cause intellectual disability, seizures, problems with movement, and a blood disorder called megaloblastic anemia. Mutations in the CBS, MTHFR, MTR, and MTRR genes cause homocystinuria, and it is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Treatment varies depending upon the cause of the disorder."
1892,Is leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation inherited ?,"LBSL is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. In this condition, each copy of the gene carries a different mutation (compound heterozygous mutations). An affected individual never has the same mutation in both copies of the gene (a homozygous mutation). The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1893,What is (are) Neonatal hemochromatosis ?,Neonatal hemochromatosis is a disease in which too much iron builds up in the body. In this form of hemochromatosis the iron overload begins before birth. This disease tends to progress rapidly and is characterized by liver damage that is apparent at birth or in the first day of life. There are a number of other forms of hemochromatosis. To learn more about these other forms click on the disease names listed below: Hemochromatosis type 1 Hemochromatosis type 2 Hemochromatosis type 3 Hemochromatosis type 4
1894,What is (are) mucolipidosis type IV ?,"Mucolipidosis type IV is an inherited disorder characterized by delayed development and vision impairment that worsens over time. The severe form of the disorder is called typical mucolipidosis type IV, and the mild form is called atypical mucolipidosis type IV.  Approximately 95 percent of individuals with this condition have the severe form. People with typical mucolipidosis type IV have delayed development of mental and motor skills (psychomotor delay). Motor skills include sitting, standing, walking, grasping objects, and writing. Psychomotor delay is moderate to severe and usually becomes apparent during the first year of life. Affected individuals have intellectual disability, limited or absent speech, difficulty chewing and swallowing, weak muscle tone (hypotonia) that gradually turns into abnormal muscle stiffness (spasticity), and problems controlling hand movements. Most people with typical mucolipidosis type IV are unable to walk independently. In about 15 percent of affected individuals, the psychomotor problems worsen over time.  Vision may be normal at birth in people with typical mucolipidosis type IV, but it becomes increasingly impaired during the first decade of life. Individuals with this condition develop clouding of the clear covering of the eye (cornea) and progressive breakdown of the light-sensitive layer at the back of the eye (retina). By their early teens, affected individuals have severe vision loss or blindness.  People with typical mucolipidosis type IV also have impaired production of stomach acid (achlorhydria). Achlorhydria does not cause any symptoms in these individuals, but it does result in unusually high levels of gastrin in the blood. Gastrin is a hormone that regulates the production of stomach acid. Individuals with mucolipidosis type IV may not have enough iron in their blood, which can lead to a shortage of red blood cells (anemia). People with the severe form of this disorder usually survive to adulthood; however, they may have a shortened lifespan.  About 5 percent of affected individuals have atypical mucolipidosis type IV. These individuals usually have mild psychomotor delay and may develop the ability to walk. People with atypical mucolipidosis type IV tend to have milder eye abnormalities than those with the severe form of the disorder. Achlorhydria also may be present in mildly affected individuals."
1895,What is (are) Dravet syndrome ?,"Dravet syndrome is a severe form of epilepsy. The condition appears during the first year of life as frequent fever-related (febrile) seizures. As the condition progresses, other types of seizures typically occur, including myoclonus and status epilepticus. A family history of either epilepsy or febrile seizures exists in 15 percent to 25 percent of cases. Intellectual development begins to deteriorate around age 2, and affected individuals often have a lack of coordination, poor development of language, hyperactivity, and difficulty relating to others. In 30 to 80 percent of cases, Dravet syndrome is caused by changes in the SCN1A gene, which is required for the proper function of brain cells."
1896,What are the symptoms of Koolen de Vries syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Koolen de Vries syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Koolen de Vries syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cognitive impairment 90% Generalized hypotonia 90% Abnormality of hair texture 75% Feeding difficulties in infancy 75% High palate 75% Joint hypermobility 75% Narrow palate 75% Nasal speech 75% Prominent fingertip pads 75% Long face 74% Cryptorchidism 71% Arachnodactyly 61% Seizures 55% Abnormality of the cardiac septa 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 50% Blepharophimosis 50% Broad forehead 50% Bulbous nose 50% Coarse facial features 50% Conspicuously happy disposition 50% Delayed speech and language development 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Epicanthus 50% High forehead 50% High, narrow palate 50% Hypermetropia 50% Hypopigmentation of hair 50% Macrotia 50% Microdontia 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Overfolded helix 50% Pear-shaped nose 50% Ptosis 50% Strabismus 50% Upslanted palpebral fissure 50% Ventriculomegaly 50% Broad chin 42% Hip dislocation 33% Hip dysplasia 33% Hypotrophy of the small hand muscles 33% Kyphosis 33% Narrow palm 33% Positional foot deformity 33% Scoliosis 33% Abnormality of dental enamel 7.5% Abnormality of the aortic valve 7.5% Cataract 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Dry skin 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Ichthyosis 7.5% Microcephaly 7.5% Pectus excavatum 7.5% Prominent nasal bridge 7.5% Pyloric stenosis 7.5% Reduced number of teeth 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Small for gestational age 7.5% Underdeveloped nasal alae 7.5% Vesicoureteral reflux 7.5% Wide nasal bridge 7.5% Aortic dilatation 5% Hypotelorism 5% Prominent metopic ridge 5% Spondylolisthesis 5% Vertebral fusion 5% Anteverted ears - Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bicuspid aortic valve - Cleft upper lip - Contiguous gene syndrome - Eczema - Failure to thrive - Hydronephrosis - Intellectual disability - Intrauterine growth retardation - Open mouth - Poor speech - Pulmonic stenosis - Sacral dimple - Sporadic - Variable expressivity - Ventricular septal defect - Wide intermamillary distance - Widely spaced teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1897,What are the symptoms of Combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 16 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 16? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency 16. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Elevated hepatic transaminases - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy - Increased serum lactate - Infantile onset - Microvesicular hepatic steatosis - Variable expressivity - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1898,What is (are) X-linked visceral heterotaxy 1 ?,"X-linked visceral heterotaxy type 1 is a very rare form of heterotaxy that has only been reported in a few families. Heterotaxy is the right/left transposition of thoracic and/or abdominal organs. This condition is caused by mutations in the ZIC3 gene, is inherited in an X-linked recessive fashion, and is usually seen in males. Physical features include heart abnormalities such as dextrocardia, transposition of great vessels, ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosus, pulmonic stenosis; situs inversus, and missing (asplenia) and/or extra spleens (polysplenia). Affected individuals can also experience abnormalities in the development of the midline of the body, which can cause holoprosencephaly , myelomeningocele, urological anomalies, widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism), cleft palate, and abnormalities of the sacral spine and anus. Heterotaxia with recurrent respiratory infections are called primary ciliary dyskinesia."
1899,What are the symptoms of Cone-rod dystrophy X-linked 2 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Cone-rod dystrophy X-linked 2? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Cone-rod dystrophy X-linked 2. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cone/cone-rod dystrophy - Progressive cone degeneration - X-linked inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1900,What are the genetic changes related to 9q22.3 microdeletion ?,"People with a 9q22.3 microdeletion are missing a sequence of at least 352,000 DNA building blocks (base pairs), also written as 352 kilobases (kb), in the q22.3 region of chromosome 9. This 352-kb segment is known as the minimum critical region because it is the smallest deletion that has been found to cause the signs and symptoms described above. 9q22.3 microdeletions can also be much larger; the largest reported deletion includes 20.5 million base pairs (20.5 Mb). 9q22.3 microdeletion affects one of the two copies of chromosome 9 in each cell.  People with a 9q22.3 microdeletion are missing from two to more than 270 genes on chromosome 9. All known 9q22.3 microdeletions include the PTCH1 gene. The protein produced from this gene, patched-1, acts as a tumor suppressor, which means it keeps cells from growing and dividing (proliferating) too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way. Researchers believe that many of the features associated with 9q22.3 microdeletions, particularly the signs and symptoms of Gorlin syndrome, result from a loss of the PTCH1 gene. When this gene is missing, patched-1 is not available to suppress cell proliferation. As a result, cells divide uncontrollably to form the tumors that are characteristic of Gorlin syndrome.  Other signs and symptoms related to 9q22.3 microdeletions probably result from the loss of additional genes in the q22.3 region. Researchers are working to determine which missing genes contribute to the other features associated with the deletion."
1901,What are the symptoms of Dystonia 11 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Dystonia 11? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dystonia 11. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Muscular hypotonia 5% Agoraphobia - Anxiety - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Depression - Incomplete penetrance - Juvenile onset - Myoclonus - Obsessive-compulsive behavior - Torticollis - Tremor - Writer's cramp - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1902,What are the symptoms of Leber congenital amaurosis 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Leber congenital amaurosis 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Leber congenital amaurosis 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blindness - Cataract - Decreased light- and dark-adapted electroretinogram amplitude - Eye poking - Fundus atrophy - Growth delay - Hepatomegaly - Hyperthreoninemia - Hyperthreoninuria - Intellectual disability - Keratoconus - Nystagmus - Photophobia - Pigmentary retinopathy - Reduced visual acuity - Sensorineural hearing impairment - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1903,What are the symptoms of Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mucolipidosis III alpha/beta. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Hearing abnormality 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Prominent occiput 90% Short stature 90% Visual impairment 90% Acne 50% Coarse facial features 50% Hernia of the abdominal wall 50% Hyperlordosis 50% Abnormality of the aortic valve 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Reduced bone mineral density 7.5% Aortic regurgitation - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Broad ribs - Carpal bone hypoplasia - Craniosynostosis - Deficiency of N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase - Dysostosis multiplex - Hyperopic astigmatism - Increased serum beta-hexosaminidase - Increased serum iduronate sulfatase activity - Intellectual disability - Irregular carpal bones - J-shaped sella turcica - Mandibular prognathia - Retinal degeneration - Scoliosis - Shallow acetabular fossae - Short long bone - Short ribs - Soft tissue swelling of interphalangeal joints - Specific learning disability - Split hand - Thickened skin - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1904,What is the outlook for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy ?,"PSP gets progressively worse but is not itself directly life-threatening. It does, however, predispose patients to serious complications such as pneumonia secondary to difficulty in swallowing (dysphagia). The most common complications are choking and pneumonia, head injury, and fractures caused by falls. The most common cause of death is pneumonia. With good attention to medical and nutritional needs, however, most PSP patients live well into their 70s and beyond."
1905,How many people are affected by hereditary pancreatitis ?,"Hereditary pancreatitis is thought to be a rare condition. In Europe, its prevalence is estimated to be 3 to 6 per million individuals."
1906,How to prevent Kidney Dysplasia ?,Researchers have not found a way to prevent kidney dysplasia caused by genetic factors or certain genetic syndromes. Pregnant women can prevent kidney dysplasia by avoiding the use of certain prescription medications or illegal drugs during pregnancy. Pregnant women should talk with their health care provider before taking any medications during pregnancy.
1907,What is (are) Adult Primary Liver Cancer ?,"Key Points
                    - Adult primary liver cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the liver.    - There are two types of adult primary liver cancer.    - Having hepatitis or cirrhosis can affect the risk of adult primary liver cancer.     - Signs and symptoms of adult primary liver cancer include a lump or pain on the right side.     - Tests that examine the liver and the blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose adult primary liver cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Adult primary liver cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the liver.
                    The liver is one of the largest organs in the body. It has four lobes and fills the upper right side of the abdomen inside the rib cage. Three of the many important functions of the liver are:         - To filter harmful substances from the blood so they can be passed from the body in stools and urine.    - To make bile to help digest fat that comes from food.     - To store glycogen (sugar), which the body uses for energy.
                
                
                    There are two types of adult primary liver cancer.
                    The two types of adult primary liver cancer are:         -  Hepatocellular carcinoma.    -  Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer). (See the PDQ summary on Bile Duct Cancer Treatment for more information.)        The most common type of adult primary liver cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma. This type of liver cancer is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide.   This summary is about the treatment of primary liver cancer (cancer that begins in the liver). Treatment of cancer that begins in other parts of the body and spreads to the liver is not covered in this summary.    Primary liver cancer can occur in both adults and children. However, treatment for children is different than treatment for adults. (See the PDQ summary on Childhood Liver Cancer Treatment for more information.)"
1908,What is (are) Chronic Pain ?,"While acute pain is a normal sensation triggered in the nervous system to alert you to possible injury and the need to take care of yourself, chronic pain is different. Chronic pain persists. Pain signals keep firing in the nervous system for weeks, months, even years. There may have been an initial mishap -- sprained back, serious infection, or there may be an ongoing cause of pain -- arthritis, cancer, ear infection, but some people suffer chronic pain in the absence of any past injury or evidence of body damage. Many chronic pain conditions affect older adults. Common chronic pain complaints include headache, low back pain, cancer pain, arthritis pain, neurogenic pain (pain resulting from damage to the peripheral nerves or to the central nervous system itself), psychogenic pain (pain not due to past disease or injury or any visible sign of damage inside or outside the nervous system). A person may have two or more co-existing chronic pain conditions. Such conditions can include chronic fatigue syndrome, endometriosis, fibromyalgia, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial cystitis, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, and vulvodynia. It is not known whether these disorders share a common cause."
1909,Is Protein C deficiency inherited ?,How is protein C deficiency inherited? Hereditary protein C deficiency is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. This means that having only one mutated copy of the responsible gene in each cell is enough to cause mild protein C deficiency. A mutated copy of the gene can be inherited from a person's mother or father. People who inherit two mutated copies of the gene have severe protein C deficiency.
1910,What are the treatments for Parasites - Enterobiasis (also known as Pinworm Infection) ?,"The medications used for the treatment of pinworm are mebendazole, pyrantel pamoate, and albendazole. All three of these drugs are to be given in 1 dose at first and then another single dose 2 weeks later. Pyrantel pamoate is available without prescription. The medication does not reliably kill pinworm eggs. Therefore, the second dose is to prevent re-infection by adult worms that hatch from any eggs not killed by the first treatment.Health practitioners and parents should weigh the health risks and benefits of these drugs for patients under 2 years of age.
    
Repeated infections should be treated by the same method as the first infection. In households where more than one member is infected or where repeated, symptomatic infections occur, it is recommended that all household members be treated at the same time. In institutions, mass and simultaneous treatment, repeated in 2 weeks, can be effective."
1911,"What are the symptoms of Dwarfism, proportionate with hip dislocation ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Dwarfism, proportionate with hip dislocation? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Dwarfism, proportionate with hip dislocation. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Autosomal recessive inheritance - Hip dislocation - Severe short stature - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1912,How to diagnose Stiff person syndrome ?,"Is genetic testing available for stiff person syndrome? Genetic testing is not available for stiff person syndrome, as the underlying genetic cause (if any) has not yet been established. How is stiff person syndrome diagnosed? A diagnosis of stiff person syndrome (SPS) is typically made based on the presence of the characteristic symptoms, a detailed medical history, a thorough clinical exam, and various tests. Specific tests are used to support or confirm the diagnosis, and to rule out conditions with overlapping symptoms. These tests may include screening tests to detect antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and amphiphysin, and an electromyography (EMG) which records electrical activity in skeletal muscles. About 60% to 80% of affected people have autoantibodies against GAD. Although the absence of GAD antibodies does not rule out SPS, the presence of high levels of GAD antibodies in appropriate people strongly supports the diagnosis. An EMG typically shows continuous motor activity, which is characteristic of SPS. Very high levels of GAD antibodies and characteristic EMG findings will confirm the diagnosis in the majority of people with SPS. Additional laboratory testing may also be used to support a diagnosis of SPS, such as hemoglobin A1C (due to association with diabetes mellitus); complete blood count (due to association with pernicious anemia); comprehensive metabolic profile; and thyroid-stimulating hormone (due to association with thyroiditis). Lumbar puncture should be obtained in people with symptoms consistent with SPS to rule out other causes. Oligoclonal bands can be seen in about two thirds of affected people who are antibody-positive."
1913,What is (are) Heat Illness ?,"Your body normally cools itself by sweating. During hot weather, especially with high humidity, sweating just isn't enough. Your body temperature can rise to dangerous levels and you can develop a heat illness. Most heat illnesses occur from staying out in the heat too long. Exercising too much for your age and physical condition are also factors. Older adults, young children and those who are sick or overweight are most at risk. Drinking fluids to prevent dehydration, replenishing salt and minerals, and limiting time in the heat can help.    Heat-related illnesses include       -  Heatstroke - a life-threatening illness in which body temperature may rise above 106 F in minutes; symptoms include dry skin, rapid, strong pulse and dizziness     -  Heat exhaustion - an illness that can precede heatstroke; symptoms include heavy sweating, rapid breathing and a fast, weak pulse     -  Heat cramps - muscle pains or spasms that happen during heavy exercise     -  Heat rash - skin irritation from excessive sweating        Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
1914,Is propionic acidemia inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1915,What is (are) Kidney Failure: Choosing a Treatment That's Right for You ?,"The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They are located just below the rib cage, one on each side of the spine. Every day, the two kidneys filter about 120 to 150 quarts of blood to produce about 1 to 2 quarts of urine, composed of wastes and extra fluid. The urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through two thin tubes of muscle called ureters, one on each side of the bladder. The bladder stores urine. The muscles of the bladder wall remain relaxed while the bladder fills with urine. As the bladder fills to capacity, signals sent to the brain tell a person to find a toilet soon. When the bladder empties, urine flows out of the body through a tube called the urethra, located at the bottom of the bladder. In men the urethra is long, while in women it is short."
1916,What is (are) Cherubism ?,"Cherubism is a rare disorder characterized by abnormal bone tissue in the lower part of the face. The enlarged bone is replaced with painless, cyst-like growths that give the cheeks a swollen, rounded appearance and frequently interfere with normal tooth development. The condition may be mild or severe. People with the severe form may have problems with vision, breathing, speech, and swallowing. Many adults with cherubism have a normal facial appearance. Most people with cherubism do not any other signs and symptoms. The condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion and is caused by mutations in the SH3BP2 gene., in most cases."
1917,What are the symptoms of Absent patella ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Absent patella? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Absent patella. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the skin - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Patellar aplasia - Patellar hypoplasia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1918,What are the treatments for Adrenal Insufficiency and Addison's Disease ?,"Adrenal insufficiency is treated by replacing, or substituting, the hormones that the adrenal glands are not making. The dose of each medication is adjusted to meet the needs of the patient.
                
Cortisol is replaced with a corticosteroid, such as hydrocortisone, prednisone, or dexamethasone, taken orally one to three times each day, depending on which medication is chosen.
                
If aldosterone is also deficient, it is replaced with oral doses of a mineralocorticoid hormone, called fludrocortisone acetate (Florinef), taken once or twice daily. People with secondary adrenal insufficiency normally maintain aldosterone production, so they do not require aldosterone replacement therapy.
                
During adrenal crisis, low blood pressure, low blood glucose, low blood sodium, and high blood levels of potassium can be life threatening. Standard therapy involves immediate IV injections of corticosteroids and large volumes of IV saline solution with dextrose, a type of sugar. This treatment usually brings rapid improvement. When the patient can take liquids and medications by mouth, the amount of corticosteroids is decreased until a dose that maintains normal hormone levels is reached. If aldosterone is deficient, the person will need to regularly take oral doses of fludrocortisone acetate.
                
Researchers have found that using replacement therapy for DHEA in adolescent girls who have secondary adrenal insufficiency and low levels of DHEA can improve pubic hair development and psychological stress. Further studies are needed before routine supplementation recommendations can be made."
1919,What are the treatments for congenital contractural arachnodactyly ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of congenital contractural arachnodactyly:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Congenital Contractural Arachnodactyly  - Genetic Testing Registry: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Arachnodactyly  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Contracture Deformity  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Skeletal Limb Abnormalities   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1920,Who is at risk for Pneumonia? ?,"Pneumonia can affect people of all ages. However, two age groups are at greater risk of developing pneumonia:
                
Infants who are 2 years old or younger (because their immune systems are still developing during the first few years of life)
                
People who are 65 years old or older
                
Other conditions and factors also raise your risk for pneumonia. You're more likely to get pneumonia if you have a lung disease or other serious disease. Examples include cystic fibrosis, asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), bronchiectasis, diabetes, heart failure, and sickle cell anemia.
                
You're at greater risk for pneumonia if you're in a hospital intensive-care unit, especially if you're on a ventilator (a machine that helps you breathe).
                
Having a weak or suppressed immune system also raises your risk for pneumonia. A weak immune system may be the result of a disease such as HIV/AIDS. A suppressed immune system may be due to an organ transplant or blood and marrow stem cell transplant, chemotherapy (a treatment for cancer), or long-term steroid use.
                
Your risk for pneumonia also increases if you have trouble coughing because of a stroke or problems swallowing. You're also at higher risk if you can't move around much or are sedated (given medicine to make you relaxed or sleepy).
                
Smoking cigarettes, abusing alcohol, or being undernourished also raises your risk for pneumonia. Your risk also goes up if you've recently had a cold or the flu, or if you're exposed to certain chemicals, pollutants, or toxic fumes."
1921,What causes Sickle Cell Disease ?,"Abnormal hemoglobin, called hemoglobin S, causes sickle cell disease (SCD).
                
The problem in hemoglobin S is caused by a small defect in the gene that directs the production of the beta globin part of hemoglobin. This small defect in the beta globin gene causes a problem in the beta globin part of hemoglobin, changing the way that hemoglobin works. (See Overview.)
                

                
How Is Sickle Cell Disease Inherited?
                
When the hemoglobin S gene is inherited from only one parent and a normal hemoglobin gene is inherited from the other, a person will have sickle cell trait. People with sickle cell trait are generally healthy.
                
Only rarely do people with sickle cell trait have complications similar to those seen in people with SCD. But people with sickle cell trait are carriers of a defective hemoglobin S gene. So, they can pass it on when they have a child.
                
If the childs other parent also has sickle cell trait or another abnormal hemoglobin gene (like thalassemia, hemoglobin C, hemoglobin D, hemoglobin E), that child has a chance of having SCD.
                
Example of an Inheritance Pattern
                

                
In the image above, each parent has one hemoglobin A gene and one hemoglobin S gene, and each of their children has:
                
A 25 percent chance of inheriting two normal genes: In this case the child does not have sickle cell trait or disease. (Case 1)
                
A 50 percent chance of inheriting one hemoglobin A gene and one hemoglobin S gene: This child has sickle cell trait. (Cases 2 and 3)
                
A 25 percent chance of inheriting two hemoglobin S genes: This child has sickle cell disease. (Case 4)
                
It is important to keep in mind that each time this couple has a child, the chances of that child having sickle cell disease remain the same. In other words, if the first-born child has sickle cell disease, there is still a 25 percent chance that the second child will also have the disease. Both boys and girls can inherit sickle cell trait, sickle cell disease, or normal hemoglobin.
                
If a person wants to know if he or she carries a sickle hemoglobin gene, a doctor can order a blood test to find out."
1922,What are the treatments for CHST3-related skeletal dysplasia ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of CHST3-related skeletal dysplasia:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: CHST3-Related Skeletal Dysplasia  - Genetic Testing Registry: Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia with congenital joint dislocations   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1923,What to do for Wilson Disease ?,"People with Wilson disease should reduce their dietary copper intake by avoiding foods that are high in copper, such as
                
- shellfish  - liver  - mushrooms  - nuts  - chocolate
                
People should not eat these foods during the initial treatment and talk with the health care provider to discuss if they are safe to eat in moderation during maintenance treatment.
                
People with Wilson disease whose tap water runs through copper pipes or comes from a well should check the copper levels in the tap water. Water that sits in copper pipes may pick up copper residue, but running water lowers the level to within acceptable limits. People with Wilson disease should not use copper containers or cookware to store or prepare food or drinks.
                
To help ensure coordinated and safe care, people should discuss their use of complementary and alternative medical practices, including their use of vitamins and dietary supplements, with their health care provider. Read more at www.nccam. nih.gov/health. If the health care provider recommends taking any type of supplement or vitamin, a pharmacist can recommend types that do not contain copper.
                
People should talk with a health care provider about diet changes to reduce copper intake.
                
Liver Transplant
                
A liver transplant may be necessary in people when
                
- cirrhosis leads to liver failure  - acute liver failure happens suddenly  - treatment is not effective
                
A liver transplant is an operation to remove a diseased or an injured liver and replace it with a healthy one from another person, called a donor. A successful transplant is a life-saving treatment for people with liver failure.
                
Most liver transplants are successful. About 85 percent of transplanted livers are functioning after 1 year.2 Liver transplant surgery provides a cure for Wilson disease in most cases. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Liver Transplantation."
1924,What are the genetic changes related to SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis ?,"Both the autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive forms of SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis are caused by mutations in the SLC4A1 gene. This gene provides instructions for making the anion exchanger 1 (AE1) protein, which transports negatively charged atoms (anions) across cell membranes. Specifically, AE1 exchanges negatively charged atoms of chlorine (chloride ions) for negatively charged bicarbonate molecules (bicarbonate ions). The AE1 protein is found in the cell membrane of kidney cells and red blood cells. In kidney cells, the exchange of bicarbonate through AE1 allows acid to be released from the cell into the urine. In red blood cells, AE1 attaches to other proteins that make up the structural framework (the cytoskeleton) of the cells, helping to maintain their structure.  The SLC4A1 gene mutations involved in either form of SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis lead to production of altered AE1 proteins that cannot get to the correct location in the cell membrane. In the autosomal dominant form of the condition, gene mutations affect only one copy of the SLC4A1 gene, and normal AE1 protein is produced from the other copy. However, the altered protein attaches to the normal protein and keeps it from getting to the correct location, leading to a severe reduction or absence of AE1 protein in the cell membrane. In autosomal recessive distal renal tubular acidosis, both copies of the SLC4A1 gene are mutated, so all of the protein produced from this gene is altered and not able to get to the correct location. Improper location or absence of AE1 in kidney cell membranes disrupts bicarbonate exchange, and as a result, acid cannot be released into the urine. Instead, the acid builds up in the blood in most affected individuals, leading to metabolic acidosis and the other features of complete distal renal tubular acidosis. It is not clear why some people develop metabolic acidosis and others do not. Researchers suggest that in individuals with incomplete distal renal tubular acidosis, another mechanism is able to help regulate blood acidity (pH) and keep metabolic acidosis from developing.  In red blood cells, interaction with a protein called glycophorin A can often help the altered AE1 protein get to the cell membrane where it can perform its function, which explains why most people with SLC4A1-associated distal renal tubular acidosis do not have blood cell abnormalities. However, some altered AE1 proteins cannot be helped by glycophorin A and are not found in the cell membrane. Without AE1, the red blood cells are unstable; breakdown of these abnormal red blood cells may lead to hemolytic anemia.  Some people have nonhereditary forms of distal renal tubular acidosis; these forms can be caused by immune system problems or other conditions that damage the kidneys. These individuals often have additional signs and symptoms related to the original condition."
1925,What are the symptoms of LCHAD deficiency ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of LCHAD deficiency? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for LCHAD deficiency. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cardiomyopathy - Hepatomegaly - Hypoglycemia - Long chain 3 hydroxyacyl coA dehydrogenase deficiency - Muscular hypotonia - Pigmentary retinopathy - Sudden death - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1926,What are the symptoms of Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome ?,"Many of the signs and symptoms of obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS) are the same as those of obstructive sleep apnea. This is because many people who have OHS also have obstructive sleep apnea.
                
One of the most common signs of obstructive sleep apnea is loud and chronic (ongoing) snoring. Pauses may occur in the snoring. Choking or gasping may follow the pauses.
                
Other symptoms include:
                
Daytime sleepiness
                
Morning headaches
                
Memory, learning, or concentration problems
                
Feeling irritable or depressed, or having mood swings or personality changes
                
You also may have rapid, shallow breathing. During a physical exam, your doctor might hear abnormal heart sounds while listening to your heart with a stethoscope. He or she also might notice that the opening to your throat is small and your neck is larger than normal.
                
Complications of Obesity Hypoventilation Syndrome
                
When left untreated, OHS can cause serious problems, such as:
                
Leg edema, which is swelling in the legs caused by fluid in the body's tissues.
                
Pulmonary hypertension, which is increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries. These arteries carry blood from your heart to your lungs to pick up oxygen.
                
Cor pulmonale, which is failure of the right side of the heart.
                
Secondary erythrocytosis, which is a condition in which the body makes too many red blood cells."
1927,What causes Gas in the Digestive Tract ?,"Most foods that contain carbohydrates can cause gas. In contrast, fats and proteins cause little gas. Foods that produce gas in one person may not cause gas in someone else, depending on how well individuals digest carbohydrates and the type of bacteria present in the intestines.
                
Some foods that may cause gas include
                
- beans  - vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, brussels sprouts, onions, mushrooms, artichokes, and asparagus  - fruits such as pears, apples, and peaches  - whole grains such as whole wheat and bran  - sodas; fruit drinks, especially apple juice and pear juice; and other drinks that contain high-fructose corn syrup, a sweetener made from corn  - milk and milk products such as cheese, ice cream, and yogurt  - packaged foodssuch as bread, cereal, and salad dressingthat contain small amounts of lactose, a sugar found in milk and foods made with milk  - sugar-free candies and gums that contain sugar alcohols such as sorbitol, mannitol, and xylitol"
1928,"What is (are) 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development ?","46,XX testicular disorder of sex development is a condition in which a person with two X chromosomes (which is normally found in females) has a male appearance. More specifically, people with this condition have male external genitalia, ranging from normal to ambiguous. Other common signs and symptoms include small testes, gynecomastia, infertility due to azoospermia (lack of sperm), and health problems related to low testosterone. Less often, affected people may experience abnormalities such as undescended testes and hypospadias. Gender role and gender identity are normally reported as male. This condition may occur if the SRY gene (which is usually found on the Y chromosome) is misplaced onto the X chromosome. This generally occurs to do an abnormal exchange of genetic material between chromosomes (a translocation). Less commonly, the condition may be due to copy number variants or rearrangements in or around the SOX9 or SOX3 gene. In some affected people, the underlying cause is unknown. In most cases, the condition occurs sporadically in people with no family history of the condition. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person and generally includes testosterone replacement therapy."
1929,What are the symptoms of Larsen syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Larsen syndrome? The signs and symptoms of Larsen syndrome vary from person to person, but may include the following: Joint dislocation (especially of the hips, knees, and elbows) Hypermobile joints Flat, rectangular face Depressed nasal bridge Prominent forehead Widely spaced eyes (hypertelorism) 'Spatula-like' thumbs Long fingers with broad ends and short nails Short arms Cleft palate Clubfoot Curved spine Short stature Breathing problems in infancy (due to soft cartilage in the airway) Cardiovascular (heart) anomalies The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Larsen syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of thumb phalanx 90% Anonychia 90% Arachnodactyly 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Depressed nasal bridge 90% Frontal bossing 90% Hypertelorism 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Malar flattening 90% Abnormality of the wrist 50% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 7.5% Abnormality of the cardiovascular system 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Conductive hearing impairment 7.5% Craniosynostosis 7.5% Cryptorchidism 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Laryngomalacia 7.5% Respiratory insufficiency 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Vertebral segmentation defect 7.5% Accessory carpal bones - Aortic dilatation - Atria septal defect - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Beaking of vertebral bodies - Bipartite calcaneus - Bronchomalacia - Cervical kyphosis - Cleft upper lip - Corneal opacity - Dislocated wrist - Elbow dislocation - Flat face - Hip dislocation - Hypodontia - Hypoplastic cervical vertebrae - Intellectual disability - Intrauterine growth retardation - Joint laxity - Knee dislocation - Multiple carpal ossification centers - Pectus carinatum - Pectus excavatum - Prominent forehead - Shallow orbits - Short metacarpal - Short metatarsal - Short nail - Spatulate thumbs - Spina bifida occulta - Spinal cord compression - Spondylolysis - Talipes equinovalgus - Talipes equinovarus - Tracheal stenosis - Tracheomalacia - Ventricular septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1930,What are the symptoms of Jansen type metaphyseal chondrodysplasia ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Jansen type metaphyseal chondrodysplasia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Jansen type metaphyseal chondrodysplasia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Frontal bossing 90% Hypertelorism 90% Micromelia 90% Proptosis 90% Abnormality of calcium-phosphate metabolism 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 50% Hypercalcemia 50% Hypoparathyroidism 50% Increased bone mineral density 50% Narrow chest 50% Sensorineural hearing impairment 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Bowing of the long bones - Brachycephaly - Choanal atresia - Choanal stenosis - Clubbing of fingers - Elevated alkaline phosphatase - Hip contracture - Hypercalciuria - Hyperphosphaturia - Hypophosphatemia - Knee flexion contracture - Metaphyseal chondrodysplasia - Metaphyseal cupping - Misalignment of teeth - Nephrocalcinosis - Osteopenia - Pathologic fracture - Prominent supraorbital arches in adult - Severe short stature - Short long bone - Short ribs - Thick skull base - Waddling gait - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1931,What are the symptoms of Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Facial palsy 5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Clumsiness - Difficulty walking - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Eosinophilia - Flexion contracture - Muscular dystrophy - Proximal amyotrophy - Scapular winging - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1932,"What are the symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type ?","What are the signs and symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type? The signs and symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS), dermatosparaxis type vary but may include: Soft, doughy skin that is extremely fragile Severe bruising and scarring Saggy, redundant skin, especially on the face Hernias Short stature Delayed closure of the fontanelles Short fingers Characteristic facial appearance with puffy eyelids, blue sclerae (whites of the eyes), epicanthal folds, downslanting palpebral fissures (outside corners of the eyes that point downward) and micrognathia Rupture of the bladder or diaphragm Mild to severe joint hypermobility The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, dermatosparaxis type. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of coagulation 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 90% Atypical scarring of skin 90% Hyperextensible skin 90% Joint dislocation 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Muscular hypotonia 90% Neurological speech impairment 90% Reduced bone mineral density 90% Short stature 90% Thin skin 90% Umbilical hernia 90% Depressed nasal bridge 50% Epicanthus 50% Hypertelorism 50% Scoliosis 50% Abnormality of primary molar morphology - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Blepharochalasis - Blue sclerae - Bruising susceptibility - Delayed closure of the anterior fontanelle - Fragile skin - Frontal open bite - Gingival bleeding - Gingival hyperkeratosis - Gingival overgrowth - Hirsutism - Hypodontia - Inguinal hernia - Joint laxity - Micromelia - Motor delay - Myopia - Osteopenia - Premature birth - Premature rupture of membranes - Recurrent mandibular subluxations - Redundant skin - Short phalanx of finger - Short toe - Soft, doughy skin - Spontaneous neonatal pneumothorax - Thick vermilion border - Wide anterior fontanel - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1933,What is the outlook for Corticobasal Degeneration ?,Corticobasal degeneration usually progresses slowly over the course of 6 to 8 years. Death is generally caused by pneumonia or other complications of severe debility such as sepsis or pulmonary embolism.
1934,How to diagnose Singleton Merten syndrome ?,"How is Singleton Merten syndrome diagnosed? The diagnosis of Singleton Merten syndrome may be suspected during infancy based upon the identification of characteristic physical findings (i.e., muscle weakness, muscle atrophy, dental abnormalities, and skeletal changes). A diagnosis may be confirmed by a thorough clinical evaluation, a detailed patient history, and/or a variety of specialized tests. The identification of calcium deposits in the aorta, in association with the other findings described above, strongly suggests a diagnosis of Singleton Merten syndrome. X-ray tests may be used to confirm the presence and extent of calcifications in the aorta. Obstruction or narrowing (stenosis) of the heart valves, particularly the aortic and mitral valves, may be confirmed by cardiac catheterization. During this procedure, a small hollow tube (catheter) is inserted into a large vein and threaded through the blood vessels leading to the heart. This procedure allows physicians to determine the rate of blood flow through the heart and measure the pressure within the heart. X-ray studies may also be performed to confirm the presence and extent of osteoporosis. Osteoporosis may be suspected when bone fractures occur more frequently than usual. X-ray tests may also reveal abnormal widening of the hollow parts of the bones that contain soft fatty tissue (bone marrow cavities) within the bones of the hands and/or feet."
1935,Is Langer mesomelic dysplasia inherited ?,"Langer mesomelic dysplasia has a pseudoautosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. The SHOX gene is located on both the X and Y chromosomes (sex chromosomes) in an area known as the pseudoautosomal region. Although many genes are unique to either the X or Y chromosome, genes in the pseudoautosomal region are present on both sex chromosomes. As a result, both females (who have two X chromosomes) and males (who have one X and one Y chromosome) normally have two functional copies of the SHOX gene in each cell. The inheritance pattern of Langer mesomelic dysplasia is described as recessive because both copies of the SHOX gene in each cell must be missing or altered to cause the disorder. In females, the condition results when the gene is missing or altered on both copies of the X chromosome; in males, it results when the gene is missing or altered on the X chromosome and the Y chromosome.  A related skeletal disorder called Lri-Weill dyschondrosteosis occurs when one copy of the SHOX gene is mutated in each cell. This disorder has signs and symptoms that are similar to, but typically less severe than, those of Langer mesomelic dysplasia."
1936,What is (are) autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy ?,"Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) is an uncommon form of epilepsy that runs in families. This disorder causes seizures that usually occur at night (nocturnally) while an affected person is sleeping. Some people with ADNFLE also have seizures during the day.  The seizures characteristic of ADNFLE tend to occur in clusters, with each one lasting from a few seconds to a few minutes. Some people have mild seizures that simply cause them to wake up from sleep. Others have more severe episodes that can include sudden, repetitive movements such as flinging or throwing motions of the arms and bicycling movements of the legs. The person may get out of bed and wander around, which can be mistaken for sleepwalking. The person may also cry out or make moaning, gasping, or grunting sounds. These episodes are sometimes misdiagnosed as nightmares, night terrors, or panic attacks.  In some types of epilepsy, including ADNFLE, a pattern of neurological symptoms called an aura often precedes a seizure. The most common symptoms associated with an aura in people with ADNFLE are tingling, shivering, a sense of fear, dizziness (vertigo), and a feeling of falling or being pushed. Some affected people have also reported a feeling of breathlessness, overly fast breathing (hyperventilation), or choking. It is unclear what brings on seizures in people with ADNFLE. Episodes may be triggered by stress or fatigue, but in most cases the seizures do not have any recognized triggers.  The seizures associated with ADNFLE can begin anytime from infancy to mid-adulthood, but most begin in childhood. The episodes tend to become milder and less frequent with age. In most affected people, the seizures can be effectively controlled with medication.  Most people with ADNFLE are intellectually normal, and there are no problems with their brain function between seizures. However, some people with ADNFLE have experienced psychiatric disorders (such as schizophrenia), behavioral problems, or intellectual disability. It is unclear whether these additional features are directly related to epilepsy in these individuals."
1937,What are the treatments for Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Greig Cephalopolysyndactyly Syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Polydactyly  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Syndactyly (image)   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1938,What to do for Smoking and the Digestive System ?,"Eating, diet, and nutrition can play a role in causing, preventing, and treating some of the diseases and disorders of the digestive system that are affected by smoking, including heartburn and GERD, liver diseases, Crohns disease, colon polyps, pancreatitis, and gallstones. More information about eating, diet, and nutrition and these conditions can be found on the Digestive Diseases A-Z list."
1939,What are the genetic changes related to arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency ?,"Mutations in the GATM gene cause arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency. The GATM gene provides instructions for making the enzyme arginine:glycine amidinotransferase. This enzyme participates in the two-step production (synthesis) of the compound creatine from the protein building blocks (amino acids) glycine, arginine, and methionine. Specifically, arginine:glycine amidinotransferase controls the first step of the process. In this step, a compound called guanidinoacetic acid is produced by transferring a cluster of nitrogen and hydrogen atoms called a guanidino group from arginine to glycine. Guanidinoacetic acid is converted to creatine in the second step of the process. Creatine is needed for the body to store and use energy properly.  GATM gene mutations impair the ability of the arginine:glycine amidinotransferase enzyme to participate in creatine synthesis, resulting in a shortage of creatine. The effects of arginine:glycine amidinotransferase deficiency are most severe in organs and tissues that require large amounts of energy, especially the brain."
1940,What are the treatments for Chromosome 3p- syndrome ?,"How might chromosome 3p- syndrome be treated? Because chromosome 3p- syndrome affects many different systems of the body, medical management is often provided by a team of doctors and other healthcare professionals. Treatment for this deletion varies based on the signs and symptoms present in each person. For example, children with delayed motor milestones (i.e. walking) and/or muscle problems may be referred for physical or occupational therapy. Severe feeding difficulties may be treated temporarily with a nasogastric tube or a gastrostomy tube to ensure that a baby or child gets enough nutrients. Certain medications may be prescribed to treat seizures. Special education services are often necessary for children with intellectual disability. Surgery may be required to treat certain physical abnormalities such as cleft palate or congenital heart defects, if present. Please speak to your healthcare provider if you have any questions about your personal medical management plan."
1941,How many people are affected by persistent Mllerian duct syndrome ?,"Persistent Mllerian duct syndrome is a rare disorder; however, the prevalence of the condition is unknown."
1942,How to prevent Hypoglycemia ?,"Diabetes treatment plans are designed to match the dose and timing of medication to a person's usual schedule of meals and activities. Mismatches could result in hypoglycemia. For example, taking a dose of insulinor other medication that increases insulin levelsbut then skipping a meal could result in hypoglycemia.
                
To help prevent hypoglycemia, people with diabetes should always consider the following:
                
- Their diabetes medications. A health care provider can explain which diabetes medications can cause hypoglycemia and explain how and when to take medications. For good diabetes management, people with diabetes should take diabetes medications in the recommended doses at the recommended times. In some cases, health care providers may suggest that patients learn how to adjust medications to match changes in their schedule or routine.  - Their meal plan. A registered dietitian can help design a meal plan that fits one's personal preferences and lifestyle. Following one's meal plan is important for managing diabetes. People with diabetes should eat regular meals, have enough food at each meal, and try not to skip meals or snacks. Snacks are particularly important for some people before going to sleep or exercising. Some snacks may be more effective than others in preventing hypoglycemia overnight. The dietitian can make recommendations for snacks.  - Their daily activity. To help prevent hypoglycemia caused by physical activity, health care providers may advise      - checking blood glucose before sports, exercise, or other physical activity and having a snack if the level is below 100 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL)    - adjusting medication before physical activity    - checking blood glucose at regular intervals during extended periods of physical activity and having snacks as needed    - checking blood glucose periodically after physical activity    - Their use of alcoholic beverages. Drinking alcoholic beverages, especially on an empty stomach, can cause hypoglycemia, even a day or two later. Heavy drinking can be particularly dangerous for people taking insulin or medications that increase insulin production. Alcoholic beverages should always be consumed with a snack or meal at the same time. A health care provider can suggest how to safely include alcohol in a meal plan.  - Their diabetes management plan. Intensive diabetes managementkeeping blood glucose as close to the normal range as possible to prevent long-term complicationscan increase the risk of hypoglycemia. Those whose goal is tight control should talk with a health care provider about ways to prevent hypoglycemia and how best to treat it if it occurs.
                
What to Ask the Doctor about Diabetes Medications
                
People who take diabetes medications should ask their doctor or health care provider
                
- whether their diabetes medications could cause hypoglycemia  - when they should take their diabetes medications  - how much medication they should take  - whether they should keep taking their diabetes medications when they are sick  - whether they should adjust their medications before physical activity  - whether they should adjust their medications if they skip a meal"
1943,What is (are) Eyelid Disorders ?,"Your eyelids help protect your eyes. When you blink, your eyelids spread moisture over your eyes. Blinking also helps move dirt or other particles off the surface of the eye. You close your eyelids when you see something coming towards your eyes. This can help protect against injuries.    Like most other parts of your body, your eyelids can get infected, inflamed, or even develop cancer. There are also specific eyelid problems, including       - Eyelids that turn in or out    - Eyelids that droop    - Abnormal blinking or twitching       Treatment of eyelid problems depends on the cause."
1944,What causes Madelung disease ?,"What causes Madelung disease? The exact underlying cause of Madelung disease remains unknown, but several theories have been proposed. The body's inability to properly metabolize fat in affected people suggests that Madelung disease may be an endocrine disorder. An enzyme defect or a change in the surface of cells could prevent the breakdown of fat leading to the characteristic signs and symptoms of the condition. Alcohol consumption may also play a role in the development of Madelung disease since roughly 90% of affected people have a history of alcohol abuse. Madelung disease has also been linked to genetic factors. Rarely, more than one family member can be affected by this condition which suggests that it may be inherited in at least some cases. In the majority of these families, the mode of inheritance has not been determined. However, changes (mutations) in mitochondrial DNA have been identified in some families who have Madelung disease in combination with other conditions that affect many different systems of the body."
1945,What are the symptoms of Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormal liver function tests during pregnancy - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Increased serum bile acid concentration during pregnancy - Intrahepatic cholestasis - Premature birth - Pruritus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1946,Is trimethylaminuria inherited ?,"Most cases of trimethylaminuria appear to be inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. Most often, the parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition. Carriers of an FMO3 mutation, however, may have mild symptoms of trimethylaminuria or experience temporary episodes of strong body odor."
1947,What are the symptoms of Occipital horn syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Occipital horn syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Occipital horn syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the fontanelles or cranial sutures 90% Cerebral calcification 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Exostoses 90% Hyperextensible skin 90% Joint hypermobility 90% Abnormality of the liver 50% Abnormality of the nose 50% Abnormality of the palate 50% Abnormality of the wrist 50% Aneurysm 50% Atypical scarring of skin 50% Brachydactyly syndrome 50% Bruising susceptibility 50% Elbow dislocation 50% Feeding difficulties in infancy 50% Hypothermia 50% Long philtrum 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Narrow chest 50% Pectus carinatum 50% Pectus excavatum 50% Platyspondyly 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Synostosis of joints 50% Venous insufficiency 50% Abnormality of the fibula 7.5% Abnormality of the hip bone 7.5% Abnormality of the humerus 7.5% Abnormality of the pinna 7.5% Abnormality of the shoulder 7.5% Abnormality of the tibia 7.5% Bladder diverticulum 7.5% Coarse hair 7.5% Genu valgum 7.5% Hernia of the abdominal wall 7.5% High forehead 7.5% Kyphosis 7.5% Osteolysis 7.5% Pes planus 7.5% Recurrent urinary tract infections 7.5% Scoliosis 7.5% Bladder carcinoma - Broad clavicles - Broad ribs - Capitate-hamate fusion - Carotid artery tortuosity - Chronic diarrhea - Convex nasal ridge - Coxa valga - Hiatus hernia - High palate - Hydronephrosis - Joint laxity - Limited elbow extension - Limited knee extension - Long face - Long neck - Narrow face - Orthostatic hypotension - Osteoporosis - Pelvic bone exostoses - Persistent open anterior fontanelle - Redundant skin - Short clavicles - Short humerus - Soft skin - Ureteral obstruction - X-linked recessive inheritance - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1948,What are the genetic changes related to familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA ?,"As its name suggests, familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA is caused by mutations in the CEBPA gene that are passed down within families. These inherited mutations are present throughout a person's life in virtually every cell in the body.  The CEBPA gene provides instructions for making a protein called CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha. This protein is a transcription factor, which means that it attaches (binds) to specific regions of DNA and helps control the activity of certain genes. It is believed to act as a tumor suppressor, helping to prevent cells from growing and dividing too rapidly or in an uncontrolled way.  CEBPA gene mutations that cause familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA result in a shorter version of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha. This shorter version is produced from one copy of the CEBPA gene in each cell, and it is believed to interfere with the tumor suppressor function of the normal protein produced from the second copy of the gene. Absence of the tumor suppressor function of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha is believed to disrupt the regulation of blood cell production in the bone marrow, leading to the uncontrolled production of abnormal cells that occurs in acute myeloid leukemia.  In addition to the inherited mutation in one copy of the CEBPA gene in each cell, most individuals with familial acute myeloid leukemia with mutated CEBPA also acquire a mutation in the second copy of the CEBPA gene. The additional mutation, which is called a somatic mutation, is found only in the leukemia cells and is not inherited. The somatic CEBPA gene mutations identified in leukemia cells generally decrease the DNA-binding ability of CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha. The effect of this second mutation on the development of acute myeloid leukemia is unclear."
1949,What is (are) Gordon syndrome ?,"Gordon Syndrome is a rare, inherited type of distal arthrogryposis typically characterized by a combination of camptodactyly (a permanent fixation of several fingers in a flexed position), clubfoot (abnormal bending inward of the foot), and less frequently, cleft palate. Intelligence is usually normal. In some cases, additional abnormalities such as scoliosis or undescended testicles in males may be present. The range and severity of symptoms may vary from case to case. Gordon syndrome is thought to be inherited in an autosomal dominant or X-linked dominant manner. The exact cause remains unknown."
1950,What are the treatments for Breast Cancer ?,"There are a number of treatments for breast cancer, but the ones women choose most often -- alone or in combination -- are surgery, hormone therapy, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. What Standard Treatments Do Here is what the standard cancer treatments are designed to do. - Surgery takes out the cancer and some surrounding tissue.   - Hormone therapy keeps cancer cells from getting most of the hormones they need to survive and grow.  - Radiation therapy uses high-energy beams to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors and some surrounding tissue.  -  Chemotherapy uses anti-cancer drugs to kill most cancer cells. Surgery takes out the cancer and some surrounding tissue. Hormone therapy keeps cancer cells from getting most of the hormones they need to survive and grow. Radiation therapy uses high-energy beams to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors and some surrounding tissue.  Chemotherapy uses anti-cancer drugs to kill most cancer cells. Treatment for breast cancer may involve local or whole body therapy. Doctors use local therapies, such as surgery or radiation, to remove or destroy breast cancer in a specific area. Whole body, or systemic, treatments like chemotherapy, hormonal, or biological therapies are used to destroy or control cancer throughout the body. Some patients have both kinds of treatment. Treating Early-Stage Breast Cancer If you have early-stage breast cancer, one common treatment available to you is a lumpectomy combined with radiation therapy. A lumpectomy is surgery that preserves a woman's breast. In a lumpectomy, the surgeon removes only the tumor and a small amount of the surrounding tissue. The survival rate for a woman who has this therapy plus radiation is similar to that for a woman who chooses a radical mastectomy, which is complete removal of a breast. If Cancer Has Spread Locally If you have breast cancer that has spread locally -- just to other parts of the breast -- your treatment may involve a combination of chemotherapy and surgery. Doctors usually first shrink the tumor with chemotherapy and then remove it through surgery. Shrinking the tumor before surgery may allow a woman to avoid a mastectomy and keep her breast. In the past, doctors would remove a lot of lymph nodes near breast tumors to see if the cancer had spread. Some doctors also use a method called sentinel node biopsy. Using a dye or radioactive tracer, surgeons locate the first or sentinel lymph node closest to the tumor, and remove only that node to see if the cancer has spread. If Cancer Has Spread Beyond the Breast If the breast cancer has spread to other parts of the body, such as the lung or bone, you might receive chemotherapy and/or hormonal therapy to destroy cancer cells and control the disease. Radiation therapy may also be useful to control tumors in other parts of the body. Get more information about treatment options for breast cancer  and for  recurrent breast cancer."
1951,What is (are) Oculodentodigital dysplasia ?,"Oculodentodigital dysplasia is a condition that affects many parts of the body, particularly the eyes (oculo-), teeth (dento-), and fingers (digital). The condition is caused by mutations in the GJA1 gene. Most cases are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Some cases are caused by a new mutation in the gene. A small number of cases follow an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Management is multidisciplinary and based on specific symptoms. Early diagnosis is critical for prevention and treatment."
1952,What are the treatments for Inclusion Body Myositis ?,"There is no cure for IBM, nor is there a standard course of treatment. The disease is generally unresponsive to corticosteroids and immunosuppressive drugs. Some evidence suggests that intravenous immunoglobulin may have a slight, but short-lasting, beneficial effect in a small number of cases. Physical therapy may be helpful in maintaining mobility. Other therapy is symptomatic and supportive."
1953,What is (are) Absence of the Septum Pellucidum ?,"The septum pellucidum (SP) is a thin membrane located at the midline of the brain between the two cerebral hemispheres, or halves of the brain.. It is connected to the corpus callosum -- a collection of nerve fibers that connect the cerebral hemispherers. This rare abnormality accompanies various malformations of the brain that affect intelligence, behavior, and the neurodevelopmental process, and seizures may occur. Children who are born without this membrane and also have other abnormalities--pituitary deficiencies and abnormal development of the optic disk--have a disorder known as septo-optic dysplasia. More information about this condition can be located at the NINDS Septo-Optic Dysplasia Information Page."
1954,What are the treatments for Overview of Kidney Disease in Children ?,"Treatment for kidney disease in children depends on the cause of the illness. A child may be referred to a pediatric nephrologista doctor who specializes in treating kidney diseases and kidney failure in childrenfor treatment.
                
Children with a kidney disease that is causing high blood pressure may need to take medications to lower their blood pressure. Improving blood pressure can significantly slow the progression of kidney disease. The health care provider may prescribe
                
- angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, which help relax blood vessels and make it easier for the heart to pump blood  - angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), which help relax blood vessels and make it easier for the heart to pump blood  - diuretics, medications that increase urine output
                
Many children require two or more medications to control their blood pressure; other types of blood pressure medications may also be needed.
                
As kidney function declines, children may need treatment for anemia and growth failure. Anemia is treated with a hormone called erythropoietin, which stimulates the bone marrow to produce red blood cells. Children with growth failure may need to make dietary changes and take food supplements or growth hormone injections.
                
Children with kidney disease that leads to kidney failure must receive treatment to replace the work the kidneys do. The two types of treatment are dialysis and transplantation. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Treatment Methods for Kidney Failure in Children.
                
Birth Defects
                
Children with renal agenesis or renal dysplasia should be monitored for signs of kidney damage. Treatment is not needed unless damage to the kidney occurs. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Solitary Kidney.
                
Ectopic kidney does not need to be treated unless it causes a blockage in the urinary tract or damage to the kidney. When a blockage is present, surgery may be needed to correct the position of the kidney for better drainage of urine. If extensive kidney damage has occurred, surgery may be needed to remove the kidney. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Ectopic Kidney.
                
Hereditary Diseases
                
Children with PKD tend to have frequent urinary tract infections, which are treated with bacteria-fighting medications called antibiotics. PKD cannot be cured, so children with the condition receive treatment to slow the progression of kidney disease and treat the complications of PKD. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Polycystic Kidney Disease.
                
Alport syndrome also has no cure. Children with the condition receive treatment to slow disease progression and treat complications until the kidneys fail. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Glomerular Diseases.
                
Infection
                
Treatment for hemolytic uremic syndrome includes maintaining normal salt and fluid levels in the body to ease symptoms and prevent further problems. A child may need a transfusion of red blood cells delivered through an intravenous (IV) tube. Some children may need dialysis for a short time to take over the work the kidneys usually do. Most children recover completely with no long-term consequences. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome in Children.
                
Children with post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis may be treated with antibiotics to destroy any bacteria that remain in the body and with medications to control swelling and high blood pressure. They may also need dialysis for a short period of time. More information about post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Glomerular Diseases.
                
Nephrotic Syndrome
                
Nephrotic syndrome due to minimal change disease can often be successfully treated with corticosteroids. Corticosteroids decrease swelling and reduce the activity of the immune system. The dosage of the medication is decreased over time. Relapses are common; however, they usually respond to treatment. Corticosteroids are less effective in treating nephrotic syndrome due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis or membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Children with these conditions may be given other immunosuppressive medications in addition to corticosteroids. Immunosuppressive medications prevent the body from making antibodies. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Childhood Nephrotic Syndrome.
                
Systemic Diseases
                
Lupus nephritis is treated with corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive medications. A child with lupus nephritis may also be treated with blood pressure-lowering medications. In many cases, treatment is effective in completely or partially controlling lupus nephritis. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Lupus Nephritis.
                
Diabetic kidney disease usually takes many years to develop. Children with diabetes can prevent or slow the progression of diabetic kidney disease by taking medications to control high blood pressure and maintaining normal blood glucose levels. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Kidney Disease of Diabetes.
                
Trauma
                
The types of trauma described above can be medically treated, though dialysis may be needed for a short time until blood flow and blood pressure return to normal.
                
Urine Blockage and Reflux
                
Treatment for urine blockage depends on the cause and severity of the blockage. In some cases, the blockage goes away without treatment. For children who continue to have urine blockage, surgery may be needed to remove the obstruction and restore urine flow. After surgery, a small tube, called a stent, may be placed in the ureter or urethra to keep it open temporarily while healing occurs. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Urine Blockage in Newborns.
                
Treatment for reflux may include prompt treatment of urinary tract infections and long-term use of antibiotics to prevent infections until reflux goes away on its own. Surgery has also been used in certain cases. More information is provided in the NIDDK health topic, Vesicoureteral Reflux."
1955,What are the treatments for Polycythemia vera ?,"What treatments are available for itching related to polycythemia vera? There are several treatments for the itching (pruritus) related to polycythemia vera (PV).  No single treatment has been found to be effective for all affected individuals.  For mild cases, treatment may include avoiding triggers of itching and dry skin, or controlling the temperature of the environment and bathing water.  Several other treatments are available for more severe itching or for itching the does not respond to initial treatments.  Interferon-alpha has been found to be effective for reducing itching in a majority of individual with PV who received this therapy; however, this medication can have significant side effects.  Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), typically used to treat depression, may reducing itching for some individuals with PV..  Phototherapy, antihistamines, and phlebotomy have also been attempted, with mixed results.  Additionally, if a genetic cause of polycythemia vera is know, medications targeted to the causative gene - such as JAK or mTor inhibitors - may be helpful in reducing itching."
1956,What are the symptoms of Tricho-dento-osseous syndrome 1 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Tricho-dento-osseous syndrome 1? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Tricho-dento-osseous syndrome 1. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of dental color 90% Abnormality of dental enamel 90% Craniofacial hyperostosis 90% Frontal bossing 90% Increased bone mineral density 90% Taurodontia 90% Woolly hair 90% Abnormality of frontal sinus 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 50% Abnormality of the ulna 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the radius 50% Carious teeth 50% Delayed eruption of teeth 50% Delayed skeletal maturation 50% Dolichocephaly 50% Malar prominence 50% Round face 50% Abnormality of the hair - Abnormality of the mastoid - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Fragile nails - Microdontia - Widely spaced teeth - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1957,What are the treatments for COPD ?,"Treatment for COPD can be different for each person and is based on whether symptoms are mild, moderate or severe. Treatments include medication, pulmonary or lung rehabilitation, oxygen treatment, and surgery. There are also treatments to manage complications or a sudden onset of symptoms."
1958,How many people are affected by Sheldon-Hall syndrome ?,"The prevalence of Sheldon-Hall syndrome is unknown; however, it is thought to be the most common type of distal arthrogryposis. About 100 affected individuals have been described in the medical literature."
1959,What are the treatments for pachyonychia congenita ?,"These resources address the diagnosis or management of pachyonychia congenita:  - Gene Review: Gene Review: Pachyonychia Congenita  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pachyonychia congenita 4  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pachyonychia congenita syndrome  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pachyonychia congenita type 2  - Genetic Testing Registry: Pachyonychia congenita, type 1  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Nail Abnormalities  - MedlinePlus Encyclopedia: Natal Teeth   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care"
1960,What are the genetic changes related to Waardenburg syndrome ?,"Mutations in the EDN3, EDNRB, MITF, PAX3, SNAI2, and SOX10 genes can cause Waardenburg syndrome. These genes are involved in the formation and development of several types of cells, including pigment-producing cells called melanocytes. Melanocytes make a pigment called melanin, which contributes to skin, hair, and eye color and plays an essential role in the normal function of the inner ear. Mutations in any of these genes disrupt the normal development of melanocytes, leading to abnormal pigmentation of the skin, hair, and eyes and problems with hearing.  Types I and III Waardenburg syndrome are caused by mutations in the PAX3 gene. Mutations in the MITF and SNAI2 genes are responsible for type II Waardenburg syndrome.  Mutations in the SOX10, EDN3, or EDNRB genes cause type IV Waardenburg syndrome. In addition to melanocyte development, these genes are important for the development of nerve cells in the large intestine. Mutations in any of these genes result in hearing loss, changes in pigmentation, and intestinal problems related to Hirschsprung disease."
1961,What is (are) Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma ?,"Key Points
                    - Adult soft tissue sarcoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the soft tissues of the body.    - Having certain inherited disorders can increase the risk of adult soft tissue sarcoma.    - A sign of adult soft tissue sarcoma is a lump or swelling in soft tissue of the body.     - Adult soft tissue sarcoma is diagnosed with a biopsy.     - Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    Adult soft tissue sarcoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the soft tissues of the body.
                    The soft tissues of the body include the muscles, tendons (bands of fiber that connect muscles to bones), fat, blood vessels, lymph vessels, nerves, and tissues around joints. Adult soft tissue sarcomas can form almost anywhere in the body, but are most common in the head, neck, arms, legs, trunk, and abdomen.     There are many types of soft tissue sarcoma. The cells of each type of sarcoma look different under a microscope, based on the type of soft tissue in which the cancer began.    See the following PDQ summaries for more information on soft tissue sarcomas:         -  Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma Treatment     -  Ewing Sarcoma Family of Tumors Treatment     -  Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Treatment     -  Kaposi Sarcoma Treatment     -  Uterine Sarcoma Treatment"
1962,What is (are) Pili torti ?,"Pili torti is a rare hair condition characterized by fragile hair. In pili torti hair has a flattened shaft with clusters of narrow twists at irregular intervals. Some cases may be inherited in autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive patterns, while others are acquired. In the inherited form, symptoms tend to be present from early childhood. It can occur alone or as part of other diseases like ectodermal dysplasias, Menke disease, Bjornstand syndrome, or Bazex syndrome. Acquired cases of pili torti may be associated with anorexia nervosa, malnutrition, oral retinoid treatment, or inflammatory scalp conditions (e.g., cutaneous lupus erythematousus). If pili torti is detected, it is necessary to investigate possible neurological disorders, hearing loss, and defects in the hair, nails, sweat glands and teeth. There is no specific treatment for this condition, but it may improve spontaneously after puberty. Click here to visit Medscape and view an image of a child with pili torti."
1963,What is the outlook for Sturge-Weber Syndrome ?,"Although it is possible for the birthmark and atrophy in the cerebral cortex to be present without symptoms, most infants will develop convulsive seizures during their first year of life. There is a greater likelihood of intellectual impairment when seizures start before the age of 2 and are resistant to treatment. Prognosis is worst in the minority of children who have both sides of the brain affected by the blood vessel abnormalities."
1964,What are the treatments for Aicardi-Goutieres Syndrome Disorder ?,"Depending upon the severity of symptoms, children may require chest physiotherapy and treatment for respiratory complications. To ensure adequate nutrition and caloric intake, some infants may require special accommodations for diet and feeding. Seizures may be managed with standard anticonvulsant medications. Children should be monitored for evidence of glaucoma in the first few months of life, and later for evidence of scoliosis, diabetes, and underactive thyroid.The prognosis depends upon the severity of symptoms."
1965,What are the genetic changes related to Netherton syndrome ?,"Netherton syndrome is caused by mutations in the SPINK5 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein called LEKT1. LEKT1 is a type of serine peptidase inhibitor. Serine peptidase inhibitors control the activity of enzymes called serine peptidases, which break down other proteins. LEKT1 is found in the skin and in the thymus, which is a gland located behind the breastbone that plays an important role in the immune system by producing white blood cells called lymphocytes. LEKT1 controls the activity of certain serine peptidases in the outer layer of skin (the epidermis), especially the tough outer surface known as the stratum corneum, which provides a sturdy barrier between the body and its environment. Serine peptidase enzymes are involved in normal skin shedding by helping to break the connections between cells of the stratum corneum. LEKT1 is also involved in normal hair growth, the development of lymphocytes in the thymus, and the control of peptidases that trigger immune system function.  Mutations in the SPINK5 gene result in a LEKT1 protein that is unable to control serine peptidase activity. The lack of LEKT1 function allows the serine peptidases to be abnormally active and break down too many proteins in the stratum corneum. As a result, too much skin shedding takes place, and the stratum corneum is too thin and breaks down easily, resulting in the skin abnormalities that occur in Netherton syndrome. Loss of LEKT1 function also results in abnormal hair growth and immune dysfunction that leads to allergies, asthma, and eczema."
1966,What is (are) intestinal pseudo-obstruction ?,"Intestinal pseudo-obstruction is a condition characterized by impairment of the muscle contractions that move food through the digestive tract. The condition may arise from abnormalities of the gastrointestinal muscles themselves (myogenic) or from problems with the nerves that control the muscle contractions (neurogenic).  When intestinal pseudo-obstruction occurs by itself, it is called primary or idiopathic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. The disorder can also develop as a complication of another medical condition; in these cases, it is called secondary intestinal pseudo-obstruction.  Intestinal pseudo-obstruction leads to a buildup of partially digested food in the intestines. This buildup can cause abdominal swelling (distention) and pain, nausea, vomiting, and constipation or diarrhea. Affected individuals experience loss of appetite and impaired ability to absorb nutrients, which may lead to malnutrition. These symptoms resemble those of an intestinal blockage (obstruction), but in intestinal pseudo-obstruction no blockage is found.  Some people with intestinal pseudo-obstruction have bladder dysfunction such as an inability to pass urine. Other features of this condition may include decreased muscle tone (hypotonia) or stiffness (spasticity), weakness in the muscles that control eye movement (ophthalmoplegia), intellectual disability, seizures, unusual facial features, or recurrent infections.  Intestinal pseudo-obstruction can occur at any time of life. Its symptoms may range from mild to severe. Some affected individuals may require nutritional support. Depending on the severity of the condition, such support may include nutritional supplements, a feeding tube, or intravenous feedings (parenteral nutrition)."
1967,What are the genetic changes related to gyrate atrophy of the choroid and retina ?,"Mutations in the OAT gene cause gyrate atrophy. The OAT gene provides instructions for making the enzyme ornithine aminotransferase. This enzyme is active in the energy-producing centers of cells (mitochondria), where it helps break down a molecule called ornithine. Ornithine is involved in the urea cycle, which processes excess nitrogen (in the form of ammonia) that is generated when protein is broken down by the body. In addition to its role in the urea cycle, ornithine participates in several reactions that help ensure the proper balance of protein building blocks (amino acids) in the body. This balance is important because a specific sequence of amino acids is required to build each of the many different proteins needed for the body's functions. The ornithine aminotransferase enzyme helps convert ornithine into another molecule called pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C). P5C can be converted into the amino acids glutamate and proline.  OAT gene mutations that cause gyrate atrophy result in a reduced amount of functional ornithine aminotransferase enzyme. A shortage of this enzyme impedes the conversion of ornithine into P5C. As a result, excess ornithine accumulates in the blood (hyperornithinemia), and less P5C than normal is produced. It is not clear how these changes result in the specific signs and symptoms of gyrate atrophy. Researchers have suggested that a deficiency of P5C may interfere with the function of the retina. It has also been proposed that excess ornithine may suppress the production of a molecule called creatine. Creatine is needed for many tissues in the body to store and use energy properly. It is involved in providing energy for muscle contraction, and it is also important in nervous system functioning."
1968,What are the symptoms of Kallmann syndrome 6 ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Kallmann syndrome 6? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Kallmann syndrome 6. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Anosmia 7.5% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1969,What are the symptoms of Omenn syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Omenn syndrome? Infants with Omenn syndrome typically present shortly after birth, usually by 3 months of age. This is similar to other types of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). The characteristic skin findings (red and peeling skin), chronic diarrhea, and failure to thrive often precede the onset of infections. Life-threatening infections caused by common viral, bacterial, and fungal pathogens occur next. Lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly, both symptoms unique to Omenn syndrome, develop next. The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Omenn syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Alopecia 90% Hepatomegaly 90% Lymphadenopathy 90% Malabsorption 90% Severe combined immunodeficiency 90% Abnormality of eosinophils 50% Abnormality of temperature regulation 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the eyebrow 50% Dry skin 50% Edema 50% Leukocytosis 50% Pruritus 50% Splenomegaly 50% Thickened skin 50% Abnormality of the fingernails 7.5% Abnormality of the metaphyses 7.5% Anemia 7.5% Autoimmunity 7.5% Hypothyroidism 7.5% Lymphoma 7.5% Nephrotic syndrome 7.5% Sepsis 7.5% Thyroiditis 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - B lymphocytopenia - Diarrhea - Eosinophilia - Erythroderma - Failure to thrive - Hypoplasia of the thymus - Hypoproteinemia - Pneumonia - Recurrent bacterial infections - Recurrent fungal infections - Recurrent viral infections - Severe B lymphocytopenia - Thrombocytopenia - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1970,What are the genetic changes related to ethylmalonic encephalopathy ?,"Mutations in the ETHE1 gene cause ethylmalonic encephalopathy.  The ETHE1 gene provides instructions for making an enzyme that plays an important role in energy production. It is active in mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers within cells. Little is known about the enzyme's exact function, however.  Mutations in the ETHE1 gene lead to the production of a nonfunctional version of the enzyme or prevent any enzyme from being made. A lack of the ETHE1 enzyme impairs the body's ability to make energy in mitochondria. Additionally, a loss of this enzyme allows potentially toxic compounds, including ethylmalonic acid and lactic acid, to build up in the body. Excess amounts of these compounds can be detected in urine. It remains unclear how a loss of the ETHE1 enzyme leads to progressive brain dysfunction and the other features of ethylmalonic encephalopathy."
1971,What are the genetic changes related to Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease ?,"Mutations in the PLP1 gene cause Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease. The PLP1 gene provides instructions for producing proteolipid protein 1 and a modified version (isoform) of proteolipid protein 1, called DM20. Proteolipid protein 1 and DM20 are primarily located in the central nervous system and are the main proteins found in myelin, the fatty covering that insulates nerve fibers. A lack of proteolipid protein 1 and DM20 can cause dysmyelination, which can impair nervous system function, resulting in the signs and symptoms of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease.  It is estimated that 5 percent to 20 percent of people with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease do not have identified mutations in the PLP1 gene. In these cases, the cause of the condition is unknown."
1972,What is (are) Kearns-Sayre Syndrome ?,"Kearns-Sayre syndrome (KSS) is a rare neuromuscular disorder with onset usually before the age of 20 years. It is the result of abnormalities in the DNA of mitochondria - small rod-like structures found in every cell of the body that produce the energy that drives cellular functions. The mitochondrial diseases correlate with specific DNA mutations that cause problems with many of the organs and tissues in the body. KSS is characterized by progressive limitation of eye movements until there is complete immobility, accompanied by eyelid droop. It is also associated with abnormal accumulation of pigmented material on the membrane lining the eyes. Additional symptoms may include mild skeletal muscle weakness, heart block (a cardiac conduction defect), short stature, hearing loss, an inability to coordinate voluntary movements (ataxia), impaired cognitive function, and diabetes. Seizures are infrequent. Several endocrine disorders can be associated with KSS."
1973,What are the symptoms of Agenesis of the dorsal pancreas ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Agenesis of the dorsal pancreas? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Agenesis of the dorsal pancreas. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the pancreas 90% Intrauterine growth retardation 90% Maternal diabetes 90% Type I diabetes mellitus 90% Autosomal dominant inheritance - Diabetes mellitus - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1974,"What is the outlook for Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?",Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery). The prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options depend on the following:         - The type of ovarian cancer and how much cancer there is.    - The stage and grade of the cancer.    - Whether the patient has extra fluid in the abdomen that causes swelling.    - Whether all of the tumor can be removed by surgery.    - Whether there are changes in the  BRCA1  or  BRCA2  genes.    - The patients age and general health.    - Whether the cancer has just been diagnosed or has recurred (come back).
1975,What is (are) Kidney Diseases ?,"Your kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of your fists. They are located near the middle of your back, just below the rib cage. Inside each kidney about a million tiny structures called nephrons filter blood. They remove waste products and extra water, which become urine. The urine flows through tubes called ureters to your bladder, which stores the urine until you go to the bathroom.     Most kidney diseases attack the nephrons. This damage may leave kidneys unable to remove wastes. Causes can include genetic problems, injuries, or medicines. You are at greater risk for kidney disease if you have diabetes, high blood pressure, or a close family member with kidney disease. Chronic kidney disease damages the nephrons slowly over several years. Other kidney problems include:       - Cancer    - Cysts    - Stones    - Infections       Your doctor can run tests to find out if you have kidney disease. If your kidneys fail completely, a kidney transplant or dialysis can replace the work your kidneys normally do.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1976,Is familial erythrocytosis inherited ?,"Familial erythrocytosis can have different inheritance patterns depending on the gene involved.  When the condition is caused by mutations in the EPOR, EGLN1, or EPAS1 gene, it has an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance. Autosomal dominant inheritance means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. Most affected individuals inherit the altered gene from one affected parent.  When familial erythrocytosis is caused by mutations in the VHL gene, it has an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. Autosomal recessive inheritance means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition."
1977,What is (are) Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB ?,"Mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPS IIIB) is an genetic disorder that makes the body unable to break down large sugar molecules called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs, formerly called mucopolysaccharides). Specifically, people with this condition are unable to break down a GAG called heparan sulfate. Affected individuals can have severe neurological symptoms, including progressive dementia, aggressive behavior, hyperactivity, seizures, deafness, loss of vision, and an inability to sleep for more than a few hours at a time. MPS IIIB is caused by alterations (mutations) in the NAGLU gene. This gene provides the instructions for producing an enzyme called N-alpha-acetylglucosaminidase, which is needed to completely break down heparan sulfate. MPS IIIB is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. There is no specific treatment for this condition. Most people with MPS IIIB live into their teenage years, and some live longer."
1978,What is (are) Diabetes Insipidus ?,"Diabetes insipidus (DI) causes frequent urination. You become extremely thirsty, so you drink. Then you urinate. This cycle can keep you from sleeping or even make you wet the bed. Your body produces lots of urine that is almost all water.    DI is different from diabetes mellitus (DM), which involves insulin problems and high blood sugar. The symptoms can be similar. However, DI is related to how your kidneys handle fluids. It's much less common than DM. Urine and blood tests can show which one you have.    Usually, DI is caused by a problem with your pituitary gland or your kidneys. Treatment depends on the cause of the problem. Medicines can often help.    NIH: National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases"
1979,How many people are affected by Pendred syndrome ?,"The prevalence of Pendred syndrome is unknown. However, researchers estimate that it accounts for 7 to 8 percent of all hearing loss that is present from birth (congenital hearing loss)."
1980,What causes Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy ?,"What causes oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy? Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is caused by mutations in the PABPN1 gene. The PABPN1 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is active (expressed) throughout the body. In cells, the PABPN1 protein plays an important role in processing molecules called messenger RNAs (mRNAs), which serve as genetic blueprints for making proteins. The protein acts to protect the mRNA from being broken down and allows it to move within the cell. Mutations in the PABPN1 gene that cause OPMD result in a PABPN1 protein that forms clumps within muscle cells, and hence they cannot be broken down. These clumps are thought to impair the normal function of muscle cells and eventually cause cells to die. The progressive loss of muscle cells most likely causes the muscle weakness seen in people with OPMD. It is not known why abnormal PABPN1 proteins seem to affect muscle cells in only certain parts of the body."
1981,What is (are) Congenital porphyria ?,"Congenital erythropoietic porphyria (CEP) is the rarest porphyria and is commonly seen in infancy, although it may begin in adulthood.  It is characterized by severe skin photosensitivity that may lead to scarring, blistering, and increased hair growth at the face and back of the hands. Photosensitivity and infection may cause the loss of fingers and facial features. Symptoms of CEP range from mild to severe and may include hypertrichosis, reddish discoloration of the teeth, anemia, and reddish-colored urine. In CEP, there is a defect in the synthesis of heme within the red blood cells of bone marrow. This defect leads to an increase in the buildup and, therefore, waste of porphyrin and its precursors, which leads to the signs and symptoms. Treatment for CEP may include activated charcoal or a bone marrow transplant, which can improve the anemia and future blister or scar formations from photosensitivity. Blood transfusions or spleen removal may also reduce the amount of porphyrin produced from bone marrow. This condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion and is caused by mutations in the UROS gene."
1982,What are the treatments for Serpiginous choroiditis ?,"Is there any treatment for serpiginous choroiditis? There are a few treatment options for individuals with serpiginous choroiditis. Treatment may involve an anti-inflammatory medication, such as prednisone, or an immune system suppressing combination of prednisone, cyclosporine, and azathioprine. Additionally, the role of cyclosporine alone has been investigated. These treatments may be administered for a long period of time to prevent recurrences. A serious complication of serpiginous choroiditis is choroidal neovascularization. Laser photocoagulation or surgery may be helpful in some of these cases."
1983,What is (are) Dementia ?,"Dementia is not a specific disease. It is a descriptive term for a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of disorders that affect the brain. People with dementia have significantly impaired intellectual functioning that interferes with normal activities and relationships. They also lose their ability to solve problems and maintain emotional control, and they may experience personality changes and behavioral problems, such as agitation, delusions, and hallucinations. While memory loss is a common symptom of dementia, memory loss by itself does not mean that a person has dementia. Doctors diagnose dementia only if two or more brain functions - such as memory and language skills -- are significantly impaired without loss of consciousness. Some of the diseases that can cause symptoms of dementia are Alzheimers disease, vascular dementia, Lewy body dementia, frontotemporal dementia, Huntingtons disease, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Doctors have identified other conditions that can cause dementia or dementia-like symptoms including reactions to medications, metabolic problems and endocrine abnormalities, nutritional deficiencies, infections, poisoning, brain tumors, anoxia or hypoxia (conditions in which the brains oxygen supply is either reduced or cut off entirely), and heart and lung problems. Although it is common in very elderly individuals, dementia is not a normal part of the aging process."
1984,Is cone-rod dystrophy inherited ?,"Cone-rod dystrophy is usually inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern, which means both copies of the gene in each cell have mutations. The parents of an individual with an autosomal recessive condition each carry one copy of the mutated gene, but they typically do not show signs and symptoms of the condition.  Less frequently, this condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In most of these cases, an affected person has one parent with the condition.  Rarely, cone-rod dystrophy is inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with this form of the condition are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one altered copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the condition. In females (who have two X chromosomes), a mutation would have to occur in both copies of the gene to cause the disorder. Because it is unlikely that females will have two altered copies of this gene, males are affected by X-linked recessive disorders much more frequently than females. Females with one copy of the altered gene have mild vision problems, such as decreased visual acuity. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons."
1985,What are the symptoms of Atrial septal defect ostium primum ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Atrial septal defect ostium primum? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Atrial septal defect ostium primum. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Atria septal defect - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1986,What is (are) Health Problems in Pregnancy ?,"Every pregnancy has some risk of problems. The causes can be conditions you already have or conditions you develop. They also include being pregnant with more than one baby, previous problem pregnancies, or being over age 35. They can affect your health and the health of your baby.    If you have a chronic condition, you should talk to your health care provider about how to minimize your risk before you get pregnant. Once you are pregnant, you may need a health care team to monitor your pregnancy. Examples of common conditions that can complicate a pregnancy include       -  Heart disease     -  High blood pressure    -  Kidney problems    -  Autoimmune disorders    -  Sexually transmitted diseases    -  Diabetes    -  Cancer     - Infections        Other conditions that can make pregnancy risky can happen while you are pregnant - for example, gestational diabetes and Rh incompatibility. Good prenatal care can help detect and treat them.    Some discomforts, like nausea, back pain, and fatigue, are common during pregnancy. Sometimes it is hard to know what is normal. Call your doctor or midwife if something is bothering or worrying you."
1987,What is (are) 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus ?,"6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus is a type of diabetes that occurs in infants. This form of diabetes is characterized by high blood sugar levels (hyperglycemia) resulting from a shortage of the hormone insulin. Insulin controls how much glucose (a type of sugar) is passed from the blood into cells for conversion to energy.  People with 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus experience very slow growth before birth (severe intrauterine growth retardation). Affected infants have hyperglycemia and an excessive loss of fluids (dehydration), usually beginning in the first week of life. Signs and symptoms of this form of diabetes are transient, which means that they gradually lessen over time and generally disappear between the ages of 3 months and 18 months. Diabetes may recur, however, especially during childhood illnesses or pregnancy. Up to half of individuals with 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus develop permanent diabetes mellitus later in life.  Other features of 6q24-related transient neonatal diabetes mellitus that occur in some affected individuals include an unusually large tongue (macroglossia); a soft out-pouching around the belly-button (an umbilical hernia); malformations of the brain, heart, or kidneys; weak muscle tone (hypotonia); deafness; and developmental delay."
1988,What are the symptoms of Ascher Syndrome ?,"What are the signs and symptoms of Ascher Syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Ascher Syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Blepharophimosis 90% Goiter 50% Hypothyroidism 50% Ptosis 50% Visual impairment 50% Abnormality of the nose 7.5% Abnormality of the palate 7.5% Deviation of finger 7.5% Hypertelorism 7.5% Abnormality of the eye - Abnormality of the mouth - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Blepharochalasis - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common."
1989,What is (are) Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta ?,"Pityriasis lichenoides et varioliformis acuta (PLEVA) is the acute form of a skin condition called pityriasis lichenoides. Affected people generally develop a few to more than one hundred scaling papules which may become filled with blood and/or pus or erode into crusted red-brown spots. PLEVA generally resolves on its own within a few weeks to a few months; however, some people experience episodes of the condition on and off for years. Although PLEVA is diagnosed in people of all ages, it most commonly affects children and young adults. The exact underlying cause is unknown, but some scientists suspect that it may occur due to an exaggerated immune response or an overproduction of certain white blood cells (lymphoproliferative disorder). If treatment is necessary, recommended therapies may include oral antibiotic, sun exposure, topical steroids, immunomodulators (medications used to help regulate or normalize the immune system), phototherapy and/or systemic steroids."
1990,What are the treatments for Weaver syndrome ?,These resources address the diagnosis or management of Weaver syndrome:  - Genetic Testing Registry: Weaver syndrome   These resources from MedlinePlus offer information about the diagnosis and management of various health conditions:  - Diagnostic Tests  - Drug Therapy  - Surgery and Rehabilitation  - Genetic Counseling   - Palliative Care
1991,What is (are) Chromosome 2q deletion ?,"Chromosome 2q deletion is a chromosome abnormality that occurs when there is a missing copy of the genetic material located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 2. The severity of the condition and the signs and symptoms depend on the size and location of the deletion and which genes are involved. Features that often occur in people with chromosome 2q deletion include developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral problems, and distinctive facial features. Most cases are not inherited, but people can pass the deletion on to their children. Treatment is based on the signs and symptoms present in each person."
1992,What causes Nance-Horan syndrome ?,"What causes Nance-Horan syndrome? Nance-Horan syndrome is caused by a mutation in the NHS gene, which is located on the X chromosome. Some patients have losses (deletions) of part of the chromosome X short arm (p) within the region involving the NHS gene and other genes that are located in this region. These patients may have more problems and the problems may be more serious."
1993,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Diabetic Retinopathy ?,"The National Eye Institute, or NEI, is conducting and supporting research that seeks better ways to detect, treat, and prevent vision loss in people with diabetes. This research is conducted through studies in the laboratory and with patients. For example, researchers are studying drugs for the treatment of proliferative retinopathy that may reduce the need for laser surgery."
1994,what research (or clinical trials) is being done for Chronic Pain ?,"Clinical investigators have tested chronic pain patients and found that they often have lower-than-normal levels of endorphins in their spinal fluid. Investigations of acupuncture include wiring the needles to stimulate nerve endings electrically (electroacupuncture), which some researchers believe activates endorphin systems. Other experiments with acupuncture have shown that there are higher levels of endorphins in cerebrospinal fluid following acupuncture. Investigators are studying the effect of stress on the experience of chronic pain. Chemists are synthesizing new analgesics and discovering painkilling virtues in drugs not normally prescribed for pain."
1995,Is age-related macular degeneration inherited ?,"Age-related macular degeneration usually does not have a clear-cut pattern of inheritance, although the condition appears to run in families in some cases. An estimated 15 to 20 percent of people with age-related macular degeneration have at least one first-degree relative (such as a sibling) with the condition."
1996,Is hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome inherited ?,"This condition is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder."
1997,What is (are) spondylothoracic dysostosis ?,"Spondylothoracic dysostosis is a condition characterized by the malformation of the bones of the spine and ribs. The bones of the spine (vertebrae) do not develop properly, which causes them to be misshapen and abnormally joined together (fused). The ribs are also fused at the part nearest the spine (posteriorly), which gives the rib cage its characteristic fan-like or ""crab"" appearance in x-rays. Affected individuals have short, rigid necks and short midsections because of the bone malformations. As a result, people with spondylothoracic dysostosis have short bodies but normal length arms and legs, called short-trunk dwarfism.  The spine and rib abnormalities cause other signs and symptoms of spondylothoracic dysostosis. Infants with this condition are born with a small chest that cannot expand adequately, often leading to life-threatening breathing problems. As the lungs expand, the narrow chest forces the muscle that separates the abdomen from the chest cavity (the diaphragm) down and the abdomen is pushed out. The increased pressure in the abdomen can cause a soft out-pouching around the lower abdomen (inguinal hernia) or belly-button (umbilical hernia).  Spondylothoracic dysostosis is sometimes called spondylocostal dysostosis, a similar condition with abnormalities of the spine and ribs. The two conditions have been grouped in the past, and both are referred to as Jarcho-Levin syndrome; however, they are now considered distinct conditions."
1998,What is (are) Norum disease ?,"Norum disease is an autosomal recessive disorder of lipoprotein metabolism that causes a typical triad of diffuse corneal opacities, target cell hemolytic anemia, and proteinuria with renal (kidney) failure. Two clinical forms are recognized: familial LCAT deficiency and fish-eye disease. Familial LCAT deficiency is associated with a complete absence of alpha and beta LCAT activities and results in esterification anomalies involving both HDL (alpha-LCAT activity) and LDL (beta-LCAT activity)."
1999,How to diagnose Insulin Resistance and Prediabetes ?,"Health care providers use blood tests to determine whether a person has prediabetes, but they do not usually test specifically for insulin resistance. Insulin resistance can be assessed by measuring the level of insulin in the blood.
                
However, the test that most accurately measures insulin resistance, called the euglycemic clamp, is too costly and complicated to be used in most health care providers' offices. The clamp is a research tool used by scientists to learn more about glucose metabolism. Research has shown that if blood tests indicate prediabetes, insulin resistance most likely is present.
                
Blood Tests for Prediabetes
                
All blood tests involve drawing blood at a health care provider's office or commercial facility and sending the sample to a lab for analysis. Lab analysis of blood is needed to ensure test results are accurate. Glucose measuring devices used in a health care provider's office, such as finger-stick devices, are not accurate enough for diagnosis but may be used as a quick indicator of high blood glucose.
                
Prediabetes can be detected with one of the following blood tests:
                
- the A1C test  - the fasting plasma glucose (FPG) test  - the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)
                
A1C test. Sometimes called hemoglobin A1c, HbA1c, or glycohemoglobin test, this test reflects average blood glucose levels over the past 3 months. This test is the most reliable test for prediabetes, but it is not as sensitive as the other tests. In some individuals, it may miss prediabetes that could be caught by glucose tests.
                
Although some health care providers can quickly measure A1C in their office, that type of measurementcalled a point-of-care testis not considered reliable for diagnosis. For diagnosis of prediabetes, the A1C test should be analyzed in a laboratory using a method that is certified by the NGSP.
                
The A1C test can be unreliable for diagnosing prediabetes in people with certain conditions that are known to interfere with the results. Interference should be suspected when A1C results seem very different from the results of a blood glucose test. People of African, Mediterranean, or Southeast Asian descent, or people with family members with sickle cell anemia or a thalassemia, are particularly at risk of interference. People in these groups may have a less common type of hemoglobin, known as a hemoglobin variant, that can interfere with some A1C tests.
                
An A1C of 5.7 to 6.4 percent indicates prediabetes.
                
More information about the A1C test is provided in the NIDDK health topic, The A1C Test and Diabetes.
                
Fasting plasma glucose test. This test measures blood glucose in people who have not eaten anything for at least 8 hours. This test is most reliable when done in the morning. Prediabetes found with this test is called IFG.
                
Fasting glucose levels of 100 to 125 mg/dL indicate prediabetes.
                
OGTT. This test measures blood glucose after people have not eaten for at least 8 hours and 2 hours after they drink a sweet liquid provided by a health care provider or laboratory. Prediabetes found with this test is called IGT.
                
A blood glucose level between 140 and 199 mg/dL indicates prediabetes.
                
The following table lists the blood test levels for a diagnosis of prediabetes."
